Few discoveries are as dramatic as finding the Titanic at the bottom of the Atlantic or Machu Picchu in the mountains of Peru. But that does not mean that studying history and cultural relics is boring or slow. In fact, exciting new discoveries from the past are made every year. Read the news reports below to learn more about a few recent finds.
## Relics from Ancient Greek Ship Rescued
Athens, 8 October 2014. Relics on a Greek ship that sank more than 2,000 years ago have been rescued by an international team of archaeologists and divers. Several artefacts, including a large bronze spear, were found. The ship, which rests 55 metres below the surface, was first discovered in 1900 by local divers. Because the water is so deep, it has been very difficult to examine the ship. Earlier this year, scientists were able to use a robot to photograph and make a map of the wreck. The cultural relics which were then rescued by the international team are among the most important to date and will help answer some of the questions about the history of the ship. “A lot of work has to be done at this site to uncover its secrets,” said the leader of the team.
## Han Dynasty Treasures to Visit the Capital
Beijing, 25 February 2016. Beijing’s Capital Museum will host some 400 rare cultural relics from the Han Dynasty that have been found in Jiangxi Province during the last five years. The relics were chosen from more than 20,000 pieces and include objects made of gold and other metals. Visitors will have a chance to see beautiful works of art as well as pottery and horse chariots. The relics were found in the tomb of Haihunhou, where experts have been digging since 2011. According to one of the experts, the find is very unusual, and special measures will be taken to safeguard the objects: “We will make sure they are not damaged.” The exhibition will open in March and last for three months.