by Harry and Sandy Chapin
## Verse 1
My child arrived just the other day.
He came to the world in the usual way,
But there were planes to catch and bills to pay.
He learned to walk while I was away,
And he was talking ’fore I knew it, and as he grew,
He’d say, “I’m gonna be like you, Dad,
You know I’m gonna be like you.”
## Chorus
And the cat’s in the cradle and the silver spoon,
Little boy blue and the man on the moon.
“When you coming home, Dad?”
“I don’t know when, but we’ll get together then.
You know we’ll have a good time then.”
## Verse 2
My son turned ten just the other day.
He said, “Thanks for the ball, Dad, come on let’s play.
Can you teach me to throw?”
I said, “Not today, I got a lot to do.”
He said, “That’s okay.”
And he walked away but his smile never dimmed;
And said, “I’m gonna be like him, yeah.
You know I’m gonna be like him.” (Chorus)
## Verse 3
Well, he came from college just the other day,
So much like a man, I just had to say.
“Son, I’m proud of you. Can you sit for a while?”
He shook his head, and said with a smile,
“What I’d really like, Dad, is to borrow the car keys.
See you later; can I have them please?”
## Chorus
And the cat’s in the cradle and the silver spoon,
Little boy blue and the man on the moon.
“When you coming home, son?”
“I don’t know when, but we’ll get together then, Dad.
You know we’ll have a good time then.”
## Verse 4
I’ve long since retired, my son’s moved away.
I called him up just the other day.
I said, “I’d like to see you, if you don’t mind.”
He said, “I’d love to, Dad, if I can find the time.
You see my new job’s a hassle and the kids have the flu,
But it’s sure nice talking to you, Dad.
It’s been sure nice talking to you.”
And as I hung up the phone, it occurred to me.
He’d grown up just like me,
My boy was just like me.
## Chorus
And the cat’s in the cradle and the silver spoon,
Little boy blue and the man on the moon.
“When you coming home, son?”
“I don’t know when, but we’ll get together then, Dad.
We’re gonna have a good time then.”

---

“Cat’s in the Cradle” is about a father who is too busy to be with his son. Then after his son grows up, his son is too busy to be with him. As the song notes: “My boy was just like me.” The song made me think of my relationship with my own father. He’s often busy with work because he wants to take care of me. I love my father very much, but I wish we had more time together. The song made me want to work harder to find chances to be with my father.
—Jill

---

“Cat’s in the Cradle” is about the idea that you get what you give. A father ignores his son for years, and then when he is older his son ignores him. While I feel sad for the man in the song, I had trouble relating to him, because I have a very good relationship with my father. We often do things together and he works hard to be with me. I’m sure that when I am older we will still be good friends.
—Dennis