## Letter Ⅰ
Dear Editor,
In the past few decades, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of people studying abroad. Although studying abroad can bring great benefits, I think the disadvantages for young people are greater.
To begin with, many students who study abroad face great economic pressure. That means studying abroad is just not possible for everyone. Tuition fees and living expenses are much more expensive than at home and could end up costing most families an arm and a leg. Studying in China is much more convenient and can help save money.
Another important factor to consider is the tremendous pressure that comes with studying abroad. Students must learn how to live in an unfamiliar environment with limited language skills. Some may struggle and suffer from culture shock when learning how to behave in new surroundings. Other students are not mature enough to handle the challenges by themselves and may become depressed. Some students might even encounter problems with personal safety. In addition, different approaches to teaching and learning may come as a shock to many students.
A final point to consider is that while studying abroad does have potential benefits, young people who study in China also have a great future to look forward to! As China has boomed, the educational environment has improved significantly, with many great universities now available. They have great facilities and outstanding professors, helping to educate young people who will contribute to the economy and further strengthen our country.
To sum up, one cannot deny the fact that studying abroad has its disadvantages, so when you think about studying abroad, you should consider these many factors.
Kind regards,
Wang Li (mother of twin girls)

## Letter Ⅱ
Dear Editor,
Is studying abroad a good idea or not? There are certainly disadvantages, but in my opinion, the advantages are much greater. As I always tell my son, there are no great difficulties for a person who is brave, optimistic, and willing to work hard!
The first advantage of studying abroad is personal growth. The education you gain and the experiences you have will change you for the better. For example, you will certainly become more independent because you will have to deal with all kinds of difficulties by yourself. Studying abroad also helps you to gain a global perspective and improve your general competence.
Another advantage is the increased chance for cultural exchange. Chinese students can be seen as cultural envoys promoting friendship between nations. International students in China also bring their colourful cultures here. Cooperating with people from diverse cultural backgrounds helps us view the world from different angles and thus gives us more insight into our own culture.
Finally, studying abroad provides a great opportunity to contribute to the development of our motherland. China’s global outlook, with projects such as the Belt and Road Initiative, has helped us make connections across the world. Therefore, China needs more talented young people with a global perspective who are highly competent with languages, have leadership and organisational skills, and have strong cultural awareness. Students who study abroad will develop such skills and abilities, and these in turn will provide them with better career opportunities.
All in all, studying abroad helps to build character and increase people’s understanding of cultural diversity while strengthening China and building a shared future for all. I think this life-changing experience is certainly worthwhile, and I hope my child will study abroad in the future.
Sincerely yours,
Zhang Yi (father of one boy)