Memory is an essential part of human life. It allows us to learn new things and solve difficult problems. Without it, we would be lost, as any sort of intelligent behavior requires accessing the knowledge stored in our memories. Memories are formed and stored in the brain, the body’s most important organ and, according to many, the most complex living structure in the universe.
Inside the brain, there are about 100 billion nerve cells, also known as neurons. Memories are formed when these neurons connect together, with information being easier to recall when more neurons form a connection. Memories are stored in different parts of the brain, and a single memory could have connections to several areas of the brain. Take, for example, the memory of riding a bike. Information on how to physically ride a bike would be stored in one part of the brain, while safety awareness and the route you are taking would be stored in other parts.
There are roughly two types of memory storage: short-term memory and long-term memory. Short-term memory helps us perform routine tasks, like remembering the name of someone we have just met. And when these short-term tasks lead to discoveries that are important to us, the information is likely to enter our long-term memory. For example, if the person we have just met is a new colleague or classmate, the information is more likely to travel from short-term to long-term memory for future use.
Scientists believe that sleep plays an important role in the processing and storage of our memories, a process known as “consolidation”. During the daytime, we receive lots of new information, and sleep provides the perfect time to organise everything. There are four stages of sleep: Stage 1, 2, and 3, and the REM (rapid eye movement) stage, which is when we dream. When we sleep, we cycle through these stages around four to five times a night, as can be seen in Graph 1. Studies show that depriving subjects of sleep can lead to a lack of memory consolidation. Stage 3, or “deep sleep”, is especially important, as it is when the brain is most at rest, allowing the undisturbed consolidation of new information and memories. These findings highlight the importance of good sleep. Not only does sleep rest and re-energise the body and mind, but it also consolidates the day’s new information into the long-term memory, and protects the memory from deterioration. In fact, more recently, improving the quality of a person’s sleep has been proposed as a way to combat serious memory conditions like Alzheimer’s disease.
The pressure for us to memorise large amounts of knowledge starts from as early as childhood for many people, when obtaining high exam scores can be extremely important to a child’s future prospects. But learning is not as easy as it sounds. It is never certain that we will successfully remember the things that we study. And not only that, even if we do remember things, there is no guarantee that we will retain the knowledge for as long as it is required. There is also worrying evidence to suggest that a person’s memory becomes weaker as they age, as can be seen in Graph 2. This has led philosophers and scientists over the centuries to wonder about how best to improve memory. Perhaps the earliest technique was invented by the Greek poet Simonides, who lived about 2,500 years ago. His “method of loci” proposed that a person should visualise the things they wish to remember in different rooms of their “memory palace”, such as imagining yourself doing things in different rooms around your house. This technique can be quite effective, but it is not particularly useful in remembering large amounts of information. For this task, it is better to use a technique based on Hermann Ebbinghaus’ forgetting curve (1885). Ebbinghaus’ findings showed that people tend to forget large amounts of information rather quickly after learning. To combat this rapid memory loss, Ebbinghaus recommended revising previously learnt knowledge at increasing intervals over time (see Graph 3 example). Many students and teachers find this “spaced repetition” approach very useful, setting specific schedules for when it is best to revise.
In closing, we are slowly uncovering more and more of the secrets of our memory, allowing us to better use it and protect it. Without a doubt, sleep plays a fundamental role in memory formation and retention, which means learning new things may prove fruitless if we do not get enough quality sleep. Added to this, to make the most of our memory, we should actively use memory-building strategies like the Ebbinghaus theory. So, if you want to maximise what you learn, be sure to get lots of sleep and study wisely!
