## A word of advice..

Your learning style should never be something that limits you. Instead, you should aim for a balanced approach that includes all three styles, because you will need to use each of them in your working life. In this respect, this test could also be useful in letting you know where you need to make some extra efforts. You may not like some learning styles but you should still try out all of the tips and see if you can develop more of a liking for them. Remember: Many of the world’s greatest achievers are flexible thinkers who are able to multitask and switch between styles.

## Visual Learners

Find visual study materials, such as charts, maps, diagrams, and videos. For example, a great way to learn new words is to use flashcards. Give it a try—it is easy to create your own flashcards. Also take lots of notes and use symbols, lines, and colours to add a visual connection. For complicated topics, try to visualise pictures, key points, and concepts in your mind, and also draw up some mind maps. Trying to remember the visual layout of a page may also help to recall the structure and content of a topic. Also, in class and during discussions, pay attention to how others use body language when they speak, because it will help you stay focused and take in more.

## Auditory Learners

Find auditory study materials, such as tapes, CDs, and MP3s. You can also make your own recordings in class and use them to improve your study notes and understanding. Be sure to note down any new information you hear and do not ignore the parts you think you already know. The benefit of auditory material is that it can be listened to again and again—anytime, anywhere—so make full use of this.
However, do not solely rely on auditory material; always take notes and review them regularly, preferably reading them aloud. Always sit as close to the teacher as possible-being able to hear clearly allows you to fully focus and learn more. You should also discuss study topics with other students and consider joining some study groups. This will reinforce your memory and allow you to learn even more.

## Tactile Learners

Try tactile study activities that allow you to be more active or take a more personal role. Rewrite your study notes several times; the repetition will aid in your memory retention. It is important to continue taking notes during class, even though it may seem dull. Try to actively change your notes when you get home, organising them with labels and even placing them around your room to add movement to learning. And to make your notes more interesting and relevant to you, try to find some real-life examples of your study topics. After all, study is supposed to prepare you for the real world. Lastly, you learn more by doing, so involve yourself in activities like role-plays and study groups, and even tutor others.
