## What is the Big Bang Theory?
The Big Bang Theory is an idea about how our universe began. Many scientists believe that everything in the universe used to be tightly pressed together. Then this mass of high energy separated into smaller pieces very quickly about 14 billion years ago to create the universe. At the moment of creation, the universe was extremely hot and everything was very close together. Then it began to spread out and cool. Today, the universe is still getting bigger. The Big Bang is considered to be the beginning of everything: time, space, and all the matter in the universe.
## What is the Hubble Space Telescope?
The Hubble Space Telescope is a very powerful telescope and was put into low orbit around Earth in 1990. Its four main instruments use a 2.4-metre mirror to look deep into space. The telescope does not have to deal with the effects of background light like telescopes on Earth, so it has been able to take very detailed pictures of space. A big achievement of the telescope has been to help scientists correctly measure how quickly the universe is expanding.
## What is FAST?
China’s Five-hundred-metre Aperture Spherical Telescope is better known as FAST. Located in Guizhou Province in southwestern China, FAST has been used since 25 September 2016. Its 500-metre dish is the world’s largest single-dish radio telescope. As such, scientists can use it to look for various things in the universe that are very far away. They can also use it to search for signs of communication that are not coming from Earth. Finding such things would prove that there is intelligent life somewhere else in the universe!
## What is a quantum satellite?
On 16 August 2016, China became the first country in the world to launch a quantum communications satellite into space. A quantum satellite is different from other satellites because it links together very small things, called subatomic particles, and uses them to send and receive information. Unlike other information, this information is completely safe from people who may want to steal it. If anyone tries, the link between the subatomic particles changes and the information becomes unreadable.