Which theme park would you like to visit? There are various kinds of theme parks, with different parks for almost everything: food, culture, science, cartoons, movies, history, and so on. Some parks are famous for having the biggest or longest roller coasters, others for showing famous sights and sounds. Whichever and whatever you like, there is an incredible theme park that will appeal to you!
The theme park you are probably most familiar with is Disneyland, which can be found in several parts of the world. Disneyland will bring you into a magical world and make your childhood dreams come true. Travelling through space, visiting a pirate ship, or meeting an adorable fairytale or cartoon character are all possible at Disneyland. As you wander around the fantasy amusement park, you may see Snow White or Mickey Mouse in a parade or even on the street. Of course, Disneyland also has many exciting rides to amuse you, from enormous swinging ships to scary free- fall drops. If you want to have fun and more than fun, come to Disneyland!
Dollywood, in the beautiful Smoky Mountains in southeastern USA, is unique because it shows and celebrates America’s traditional southeastern culture. Famous country music groups put on performances there all year round, indoors and outdoors. People come from all over America to see skilled workers make wood, glass, and iron objects in the old-fashioned way. Visiting the candy shop and trying some of the same kind of candy that American southerners made 150 years ago is a rare experience. Riding on the only steam engine still working in the southeastern United States is a special treat. And for those who like rides, Dollywood has a superb old wooden roller coaster, Thunderhead. It is world-famous for having the longest track in the smallest space. Come to Dollywood to have fun learning all about America’s historical southeastern culture!
Chimelong Ocean Kingdom in Zhuhai, China, is one of the leading ocean-themed parks in the world. Here you can walk under the Whale Shark Aquarium—the world’s largest—and see up to 20,000 fish, in addition to a whale shark 68 metres in length. Watching the dolphin and sea lion shows is both educational and fun. Of course, you can also see all kinds of interesting animals, including polar bears. The park has more rides than you can imagine: join a water fight against pirates, get turned upside down by an exciting roller coaster, or get wet in one of the water rides! Then at night, see the splendid Journey of Lights Parade and fireworks display. Hungry? The park has plenty of restaurants with tasty food for every appetite—you can even eat while watching the fish swim by. If it is ocean entertainment that you are looking for, come to Chimelong Ocean Kingdom!