## letter 1
Dear Editor,
After I attended your summer camp about health and lifestyle choices, I realised I hardly ever felt well, either physically or mentally. I often felt sleepy and dizzy, and lacked passion.Most worrying, though, I got the flu easily and experienced many toothaches, too.
At the end of the camp I heard, “Change the world by changing yourself.” This stimulated my motivation. A dentist once examined me and told me that too much sugar in my meals had damaged my teeth and health. I made up my mind to change two things in my life: to eat nothing with sugar and to exercise regularly.
After that I stopped buying all the sweets, biscuits, and sugary drinks that I used to have every day. Whenever I went out with friends, I brought snacks from home, things that didn’t have any added sugar: fruit, nuts, dried meat, etc.
My exercise was very simple: I went outside every day for at least 30 minutes and did something active. Sometimes I played table tennis or badminton with my cousins. Other times I jumped on my skateboard and rode around my neighbourhood, or just took a long walk.
The results have been fantastic. I feel more dynamic and stronger than ever, in both body and mind. I sleep soundly at night now. I no longer suffer from a flu virus or toothaches either. Best of all, in my opinion, is how I feel about myself. I feel like I’m in control of my own life. To make choices about myself is within my own power. I CAN change myself. I just need to try.
Yours truly,
Wang Lu
## letter 2
Dear Editor,
As I took part in the summer camp about personal life choices, I started to analyse my choices, especially what I did to relax and how it was affecting my whole life.
After starting high school, I felt stressed out and always relaxed by playing computer games. I got so absorbed that I played the games day and night. Playing was fun, but I felt even more worn out afterwards! So after the camp, I realised that it was very, very important to adjust my lifestyle. I decided to take control of my life and find other ways to relax.
It was a big struggle not to join my friends in playing online games as I’m mad for them.However, I realised that to succeed in quitting, I had to replace it with something else. So I thought about what to try. Rock climbing, bowling, watching comedies, and playing basketball were the things I thought of doing instead.
Now my dad and I go rock climbing together monthly! It has enhanced the quality of my life, improving my health and increasing my happiness. I get refreshed through climbing, spend more time with my dad, and get to meet new friends.
After six months of trying out new ways of relaxing, I feel much more energetic. I feel that I can change myself for the better. And if that’s true for me, then it might truly be possible to change the world for the better. As Gandhi said, “Be the change you want to see in the world.”
Sincerely,
George Fielding