There are various reasons why people compose  poetry. Some poems tell a story or describe a  certain image in the reader’s mind. Others try to  convey certain feelings such as joy and sorrow. The distinctive characteristics of poetry often include  economical use of words, descriptive and vivid  language, integrated imagery, literary devices such  as similes and metaphors, and arrangement of words, lines, rhymes, and rhythm. Poets use many different forms of poetry to express themselves.Now we will look at a few of the simpler forms.
Some of the first poems a young child learns in  English are nursery rhymes. They are usually the  traditional poems or folk songs. The language of  these rhymes, like Poem A, is to the point but has a storyline. Many children enjoy nursery rhymes  because they rhyme, have a strong rhythm, and  often repeat the same words. The poems may  not make sense and even seem contradictory, but they are easy to learn and recite. By playing with the words in nursery rhymes, children learn about language.
One of the simplest kinds of poem is the “list  poem”, which contains a list of things, people,  ideas, or descriptions that develop a particular  theme. List poems have a flexible line length and  repeated phrases which give both a pattern and a rhythm to the poem. Some rhyme, while others do not.
Another simple form of poem that amateurs can easily write is the cinquain , which is made up of five lines. With these, you can convey a strong picture or a certain mood in just a few words. Look at the example.
Haiku is a Japanese form of poetry that consists of 17 syllables. It has a format of three lines, containing 5, 7, and 5 syllables respectively. It is not a traditional form of English poetry, but is very popular with English writers. It is easy to write and, like the cinquain , can give a clear picture and create a special feeling using very few words. The haiku poem on the right is a translation from Japanese, which shows a moment in the life of a delicate butterfly.
English speakers also enjoy poems from China, those from the Tang Dynasty in particular. A lot of Tang poetry has been translated into English, such as this one.
With so many different forms of poetry to choose from, you may eventually want to write poems of your own. Give it a try!
