## Text 1
When people talk of exploring the sea more, they usually mean exploiting it. Sea exploration has caused many problems and will continue to cause more.
More exploration means more pollution. The Deepwater Horizon spilled over 200 million gallons of oil into the sea in 2010. Plastic pollution is also bad, killing many birds and fish, and has even been found in our tap water.
Mining for resources is very damaging, especially in the Arctic. Because of climate change, there is less ice now, which means we can look for more fossil fuels further north. But if we burn these, the ice will melt more and this negative cycle will continue. Climate change is warning us that something is very wrong.
Overfishing is another problem. Whales and dolphins are also hunted for their meat or for so- called research. Although this was banned in 1982, some countries are still “murdering” these intelligent creatures without mercy.
The sea is home to life, not human beings’ possessions. It is huge, but it is more sensitive than we think. If we do not protect it, future generations will not forgive us.
## Text 2
To truly understand our planet, we must explore the oceans which cover most of it. Opponents may be concerned, but sea exploration is important for our future. For example, scientific research ships can help address important issues such as climate change. We need to understand what is happening to our planet so that we can take action. Therefore, more research is necessary.
Understanding more about the sea will also help us manage its resources better. Logging new species will improve our understanding of life on the earth. It may help us discover new medicines, as well as new sources of food and energy. Accessing the deep ocean may also help us to predict events such as earthquakes.
The population of the world is growing and we need new resources for future development. There are probably vast amounts of resources under the sea and ice, not just oil and gas but also valuable minerals.
Of course, there are still environmental risks. However, these should be balanced with economic needs. Hopefully, as technology improves, we may have more options for managing this balance.