SUMMER CAMP HELPERS WANTED!
Are you an active and outgoing person? Are you passionate about Chinese culture? Would you like to meet and help young people from other countries?
The Frog & Fox Summer Camp Council is looking for enthusiastic high school students to join our team as camp helpers at our summer camp next year! Our camp is located in a beautiful area near a quiet canal, where you will sleep in tents under the stars.
We are building a team of keen young people to help us attend to hundreds of students from all over the world. You will be required to supervise and/or help out in a variety of tasks1 and recreational activities.
Successful applicants will ideally have the following:
• a good level of English;
• good organisational and teamwork skills;
• a passion for Chinese and international culture;
• experience with animals;
• a friendly, welcoming attitude, and good handwriting!
Send your CV and cover letter to: receptionist@FAFSC.com (FYI: Applications can also be made on paper or disk.)
1 Keep the parking area clean, guide new guests to the reception area, etc.
2 Camel rides, barbecue & fry, calligraphy, purse sewing, knitting with wool, etc.

---

Dear Sir/Madam, 
I would like to apply for the position of camp helper. Please find my CV attached.
I believe I would be a valuable addition to your team. My English is at an intermediate level, and I have travelled to several English-speaking countries. I have also helped to organise a three-day tour of my city for visiting exchange students.
I have experience in working with animals, and I have also volunteered at a local library to help organise the children’s section. I am a team player and I enjoy working with others. I have been captain of my school table tennis team for two years, so I know how to lead and decide on priorities.
With my proficiency in Chinese calligraphy, I could also conduct classes for your visitors to help them learn more about this beautiful aspect of Chinese culture.
The prospect of welcoming exchange students to our country is very exciting, and I am keen to use my skills to give them a warm welcome and an experience they will always remember.
I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
Yours faithfully, 
Kelly Xu

---

Kelly Xu
16 Xinhua Road
Hangzhou
Mobile: 1XX 6616 5555
Email: kellyxu888@exmail.cn
RELEVANT EXPERIENCE
2019–Present
Plan and teach after-school classical calligraphy classes
• Design classroom activities, provide feedback
2018–2019
Worked during holidays at local pet shop
• Cleaned cages, checked and changed flea collars, helped customers
2017
Visited UK on high school exchange programme
• Experienced British culture, demonstrated Chinese culture
2016
Volunteered at local library
• Assisted librarians in organising children’s library section
Helped organise city tour for visiting students from Canada
• Helped manage tour finances and receipts
EDUCATION
09.2018–Present Hangzhou XXX Senior High School
09.2015–07.2018 Hangzhou XXX Junior High School
SKILLS & QUALIFICATIONS
• PETS 3 English qualification
• Certificate in Chinese Calligraphy
INTERESTS & ACTIVITIES
• Chinese calligraphy
• Classical literature
• Table tennis
• Amateur photography
• Detective novels
• Programming