Adapted from“Nature”by Ralph Waldo Emerson
Ralph Waldo Emerson(1803-1882), who was born and lived most of his life in Massachusetts, USA, was a famous poet and essayist.

To go into solitude, a man needs to retire as much from his chamber as from society. I am not solitary while I read and write, though nobody is with me. But if a man would be alone, let him look at the stars. The rays that come from those heavenly worlds will separate between him and what he touches. One might think the atmosphere was made transparent with this design, to give man, in the heavenly bodies, the eternal presence of magnificence. Seen in the streets of cities, how great they are! If the stars should appear one night in a thousand years, how would men believe and adore; and preserve for many generations the remembrance of the glory which had been shown! But every night come out these representatives of beauty, and light the universe with their smile.
The stars awaken a certain awe, because though always present, they are inaccessible; but all natural objects make a similar impression, when the mind is open to their influence. Nature never wears a mean appearance. Neither does the wisest man obtain her secret, and lose his curiosity by finding out all her perfection. Nature never became a toy fo a wise spirit. The flowers, the animals, the mountains, reflected the wisdom of his best hour, as much as they had delighted the simplicity of his childhood.
When we speak of nature in this manner, we have a distinct but most poetical sense in the mind. We mean the integrity of impression made by many different natural objects. It is this which distinguishes the log of the wood-cutter, from the tree of the poet.
To speak truly, few adults can see nature. Most people do not see the sun. At least they have a very superficial seeing. The sun illuminates only the eye of the man, but shines into the eye and the heart of the child. The lover of nature is he whose inward and outward senses are still truly adjusted to each other; who has retained the spirit of infancy even into the era of manhood. In the presence of nature, a wild delight runs through the man, in spite of real sorrows. Not the sun or the summer alone, but every hour and season brings delight; for every hour and change brings a different state of the mind, from breathless noon to grimmest midnight. In good health, the air is a medicine of incredible virtue. strolling across a bare common, in snow puddles at twilight, under a clouded sky, without having in my thoughts any occurrence of special good fortune, I have enjoyed a perfect delight. I’m glad to the edge of fear.
In the woods too, a man casts off his years, as the snake his skin, and at what period so ever of life, is always a child. In the woods, is eternal youth. In the woods, we return to reason and faith. There I feel that nothing bad can happen to me in life--no disgrace, no disaster, which nature cannot repair. Standing on the bare ground--my head bathed by the happy air, and lifted up into infinite space--all of my shallow egotism fades away. I become a transparent eyeball; I am nothing; I see all.
I am the lover of uncontained and immortal beauty. In the wilderness, I find something dearer than in streets or villages. In the peaceful landscape, and especially in the distant line of the horizon, man sees something as beautiful as his own nature.
The greatest delight which the fields and woods give me is the suggestion of a magical relation between man and the vegetable. I am not alone and unacknowledged They nod to me, and I to them. The waving of the branches in the storm is new to me and old. It takes me by surprise, and yet is not unknown. Its effect is like that of a higher thought or a better emotion coming over me, when I deemed I was thinking justly or doing right.
Yet it is certain that the power to produce this delight does not exist in nature, but in man, or in a harmony of both. It is necessary to use these pleasures with great temperance. For nature does not always wear holiday clothes, but the same scene which yesterday breathed perfume is filled with solemnity today. Nature always wears the colours of the spirit. To a man labouring under a burden, the heat of his own fire has sadness in it. Then, there is a kind of contempt of the landscape felt by him who has just lost by death a dear friend. The sky is less grand as it shuts down over less worth in the population.
