One afternoon, they were sitting on the seat that looks down into Govetts Leap--the great valley that the highest rocks of the mountains guard. The five girls were gazing out into the great stretches of mountains rolling back against the sky.
“Oh, to see this place with the sun behind it!”cried Mabel, suddenly. “If we could only see the sun rise there beyond those great, dark rocks, and make all the sky turn red. By the time we get down here in the daytime it’s all uninteresting to look at.”
After tea that night they told their mother that they wanted to see the sunrise at the Leap.
“You will all be very careful?”
“Of course we will.”
At that the mother gave her permission.
So that same night the billy was packed with tea, sugar, and a little bottle of milk. Mabel cut sandwiches and made them into a parcel.
At three the alarm went off, and in approximately a quarter of an hour everyone was dressed ready to go out.
As they opened the back door and stepped out into the yard, they all had little thrills of fear running up and down their nerves. They were soon down on the long red road that led to Govetts Leap.
Up in the sky there were many stars, and from them came all the light that there was, except the lantern’s beams. Then some long, thin rays of light, just where the mountains touched the sky.
On either side of the road the bush was black and still. But from it there came stealing sweet, pure tree-scents and leaf odours--the scent of cherry-wood and of sharp grey gum trees.
Then a pale, weak light crept out into the darkness, the trees in the bush around were not quite so black, and the road in front began to show faintly white. Turn after turn of the long red road went by. All the time the light was strengthening, and the lantern’s beam was paling.
One more turn, and the white fence at the head of the Leap came into view. They hurried on their cheeks blooming with the roses of health and early morning, and dropped their basket and the billy on the steps of the adjacent look-out shed.
Then they seated themselves on the steps and watched. They were just in time.
First, the sky beyond the Leap turned pale, pale pink. Then a sparkling zig-zag line of gold wrote itself right across the pink. It was like a flash of golden lightning come to stay.
A great red ship came sailing into the pink and gold. After it, there floated a medieval castle. Seas and rivers and mountains rose from some mysterious place, and floated across the sky. The footsteps of the five rang clearly and evenly on the air.
Then a small, bright, yellow thing, rising from behind a far-off peak. Slowly, and yet quickly, it went up into the sky.
All in a moment a flood of light burst out over the eastern mountains, the yellow thing was round and brilliant, the sky was one sea of red. The eyes that watched were blinded, and looked down a minute; and the sun had risen.
The Leap was no longer the dull, grave Leap of the noon and afternoon. The light was pouring down through it, and its mists were glowing with old gold and rose and tender orange and kingly purple.
On the mountain sides the leaves of the trees were gleaming like diamonds. Over the rocks rolled the water in a fall of jewels. The rocks themselves stood out against a blazing red background. A change, more wonderful even than the sunset’s, had over swept the world.
The five little girls sat on the steps, and watched with eager eyes. They sighed, and breathed hard, and sighed again, and never took their eyes from the sky for a moment. For the wonder was all new to them--the fair wonder of a mountain dawn.
The sun rose higher and higher over the top of the Leap, and the colour in the sky changed to what Brenda called “only sunlight”.
Then their voices all broke out at once.
“Oh, how lovely!”
“Wasn’t it red!”
“Wasn’t the sun gold!”
“Wasn’t the sky beautiful!”
“I wouldn’t have missed it for anything in the world,” declared Lennie.
“Neither would I,” said Mabel just as solemnly, and of course the little sisters echoed her words.
The fire was made, the billy boiled, and egg sandwiches were eaten on the wooden steps along with some tea, the mountains rolling out before them. It was the sweetest breakfast they had ever known. And, above all, it was five o’clock in the morning, and they were miles away from home, in the heart of the Blue Mountains.
