## Nature 's Properties Often Being Ignored
We often take nature for granted. Of course we know that it exists, because it is all around us. It is the water that we splash on our face in the mornings, the freshly cut grass we smell on our way to school, the apple we have for lunch, the golden rays of the setting sun which bathe our world with glory, and the stars which guide our nightly dreams. The breeze that gently touches you cheeks and the clouds that paint images in the sky are constant reminders of nature’s presence However, it is so easy to become jaded with that which we know too well. And, just as we so often pass by the riot of colours in a garden, not noticing its fantastic beauty, we seldom stop to think that nature is endowed with an array of properties, which, if we had them, would be considered superpowers.

## Stronger Than Steel
One popular superhero from a popular film is a teenager who shoots out a silken thread and uses it to fly through the air or catch criminals. While this may seem remarkable, spiders in nature do this all the time. One slender strand of spider silk is less than 1/20 the diameter of a human hair. However, if it were the same size as a steel beam, it would be five times stronger than the steel. It is also tremendously flexible, having the ability to stretch 2 to 4 times its length. This allows spiders to use their silk to spread out like an umbrella to fly through the air, and to weave webs which can catch large prey without breaking. How large a prey? The golden orb weaver spider in Australia is known to catch and eat small birds in its webs. It is also no accident that many webs look like works of art. Some spiders deliberately make them look more beautiful in order to attract insects. Since spider webs often lose their stickiness in a short time, spiders often make a new web, eating the old web to recycle the protein.

## Magic Tree Roots
One of the most lovable superheroes in film is a tree-like alien who is able to grow back body parts and reproduce from branches. However, this superhero lacks one super attribute that all real trees have--roots. While typically trees have a root system that is about the size of their branches, up to 90% of some desert trees--such as the mesquite trees--are made up of roots, as they need long roots to find enough water to survive. However, the deepest roots belong to a wild fig tree in Ohrigstad, South Africa, which reach 120 metres underground. But what are roots' superpowers? For one thing, they are strong enough to break apart rocks and concrete. Since they are constantly in search of water, if they find a crack in a stone, they will force their way into it and over time break it apart. For another, some tree roots appear to have telepathic powers and can use this to communicate with other trees about the weather and growing conditions. Through their roots, some trees even provide nutrients to other trees in their area which are struggling to survive.

## The Powerful Oceans
One of the most powerful superheroes in film is a woman who can call forth instant hurricanes and even lightning bolts to overcome the bad guys. Her real-life prototype is the ocean. Much of the solar radiation striking Earth--more than 100 times the energy used by humans--is absorbed by oceans and circulated by currents around the globe, warming areas farther away from the solar radiation. Warmth from the oceans heats the air, causing it to rise and form wind. Warm ocean water also evaporates and turns into the moisture that forms clouds and rain; 85% to 90% of the rain on earth comes from ocean water. Thus, the vast majority of the earth’s storms, even those far away from the sea, are activated by the oceans’ great power. The most powerful storms by far are hurricanes, which are created on the ocean and then move over land. A typical hurricane releases the same energy as 10,000 nuclear bombs. The power of ocean is really beyond our imagination!

## Knowing Our Proper Place
Of course though nature has superpowers, it is not a superhero--it is not a person whom we can talk to and bargain with. Rather, it is a powerful force that holds us at its mercy. As much as we try to make use of nature and bend it to our will, we are the ones who must always adapt. In the same way that we must live our lives by the rhythms of the sun though the sun does not notice our existence, it is we who must order our lives by nature, and not the other way around. This should create in us both humility and awe. Nature is more powerful, mysterious, and beautiful than anything we ourselves could ever make with our own hands. Just as we cannot control the wind, we cannot create anything as beautiful as a simple rose, and there is so much about nature that is still beyond our comprehension. Since our own powers and abilities are so limited compared to the richness of nature, we would do well to appreciate it more, to stop and consider its greatness, to stand in a we of its complexity and magnificence.
