(Adapted from The Conquest of Happiness by Bertrand Russell)
I wish now to speak of the affection that a person gives. This also is of two different kinds, one of which is perhaps the most important expression of a zest for life, while the other is an expression of fear. The former seems to me wholly admirable, while the latter is at best a consolation. If you are sailing in a ship on a fine day along a beautiful coast, you admire the coast and feel pleasure in it. This pleasure is one derived entirely from looking outward and has nothing to do with any desperate need of your own. If, on the other hand, your ship is wrecked and you swim towards the coast, you acquire for it a new kind of love: It represents security against the waves, and its beauty or ugliness becomes an unimportant matter. The better sort of affection corresponds to the feeling of the man whose ship is secure, while the less excellent sort corresponds to that of the shipwrecked swimmer. The first kind of affection is only possible in so far as a man feels safe. The latter kind, on the contrary, is caused by the feeling of insecurity. The feeling caused by insecurity is very subjective and self-centred, since the loved person is valued for services rendered, not for intrinsic qualities. I do not, however, wish to suggest that this kind of affection has no legitimate part to play in life. In fact, almost all real affection contains something of both kinds in combination. Affection does really cure the sense of insecurity; it sets a person free to feel again that interest in the world that is obscured in moments of danger and fear. But despite all this, it is still no match for affection felt through security, because it depends upon fear, and it is more self-centred. In the best kind of affection, a person hopes for a new happiness rather than for escape from an old unhappiness.
The best type of affection is mutually life-giving. Each person receives affection with joy and gives it without effort, and each finds the whole world more interesting in consequence of the existence of this mutual happiness. However, there is another kind of affection that is commonly seen in life, in which one person sucks the vitality of the other. One receives what the other gives, but gives almost nothing in return. Some very vital people belong to this bloodsucking type. They extract the vitality from one victim after another, but while they prosper and grow interesting, the victims grow pale and dim and dull. Such people use others as a means to their own ends and never consider them as ends in themselves. Fundamentally, they are not interested in those whom for the moment they think they love; they are interested only in the stimulus they get from the relationship. Evidently, this springs from some defect in their nature, but it is one not altogether easy either to diagnose or to cure. It is a characteristic frequently associated with great ambition and is rooted deeply. It is, in essence, a very one-sided view of human happiness. Affection in the sense of a genuine interest of two persons in each other, not solely as a means to each other’s good, but rather as a common good is one of the foremost elements of real happiness. The man whose ego is so enclosed within steel walls that he only thinks of himself misses the best that life has to offer however successful he may be in his career. Ambition which excludes affection from others is generally the result of some kind of anger or hatred against the human race, produced by unhappiness in youth, by injustices in later life, or by any of the cause which lead to persecution mania. A too powerful ego is a prison from which a man must escape if he is to enjoy the world to the full. A capacity for genuine affection is one of the marks of the man who has escaped from this prison of self. To receive affection is by no means enough. Affection which is received should liberate the affection which is to be given, and only where both exist in equal measure does affection achieve its best possibilities.

