The Parenting Monthly viewing recommendation this month comes in the form of a marvellous new play that is showing at the Paradise Theatre. It is an adaptation of a play from over a century ago, The Blue Bird, by Maurice Maeterlinck. We strongly recommend it for its imaginative storyline and underlying strong moral values. Here is a description of its main messages and features.
The story depicts a young brother and sister who live in a humble cottage with their hard-working parents. One night, the children enter a strange dream world, where they are visited by a fairy, who asks them to find the Blue Bird of Happiness. The fairy then turns their pets and various household objects into real people so they can escort the children on an adventure full of wonder, temptation, and magic.
The play presents itself as a typical children’s storybook adventure, with the added bonus that it teaches kids about the true meaning of happiness. For example, in the Land of Memory, the children encounter their beloved grandparents, who have already passed away, signalling heavily to the audience that we should all treasure the happy times spent with relatives.
The play also does a great job of showing how the kids realise they have.
an important task to complete and must resist all temptation. In the Palace of Happiness scene, many of life’s luxuries are personified for the children to see. Characters such as “The Luxury of Being Rich” and “The Luxury of Eating When You’re Not Hungry” all seem very attractive at first. However, upon using a magic hat, the children gradually begin to see their inherent flaws. Throughout their journey, the children are successful in finding several Blue Birds, but each time there is a complication. Naturally, the children become discouraged, prompting their mother to appear in the dream to comfort them. Eventually, the children return home and fall asleep. When they wake up, they find themselves in the real world again, showing a refound appreciation for their home, pets, and parents, stressing the old proverb of being happy with what you’ve got.
The play’s cast performed well throughout the show. The choice of actors, some of whom are quite well known in the theatre world, was very fulfilling. From start to finish, the actors’ teamwork and showmanship carried the audience on a convincing journey across the story’s magical land. The children’s performances were especially potent, their passion and comradeship reminding us how rewarding watching live performances can really be.
The play’s design elements were very well thought out and, just like the casting, showed no signs of idleness. It was a little disheartening to hear a small complication with the audio system during the first scene, but it was soon fixed and the play continued nonetheless. The stage design and props, although quite basic at times, were enough to set the scene. In addition, the characters’ costumes were quite creative and convincing, with clever use of makeup to bring out their features.
The overall reaction to the performance seemed very positive. For a century-old play, it was still very relevant to modern times. And, most importantly, it taught the kids how to appreciate the happiness that is right there under their little noses, undoubtedly making them return home that little bit happier.
