Never had a situation been more desperate. On 26 May 1940, some 400,000 British and French soldiers were trapped at the town of Dunkirk on the north coast of France. Surrounding them were 800,000 German troops, including seven tank divisions. In lightning strikes, this same German army had already defeated the Dutch and Belgian armies and had destroyed most of France’s forces. Now it was getting ready to destroy the soldiers at Dunkirk.
The fighting had begun in earnest just 16 days before. Though war had been declared on 3 September 1939, for months if had been a “Phoney War”. France and Germany mobilised their militaries, and Britain sent a force to help defend France, but there had been very little shooting. Meanwhile, both Belgium and the Netherlands had declared neutrality—a neutrality Germany promised to honour. Little did they know what Germany had planned for them.
On 10 May, large numbers of German tanks and soldiers invaded the Netherlands, Belgium, and France. Resistance quickly fell and their countries surrendered.
Meanwhile, the French and British fought back, leaving the French army’s right flank lightly protected. German tanks used this to their advantage. They struck the French in the east, destroying or capturing almost all the French forces in their path. Then they continued west to the English Channel, trapping much of the remaining French and British forces along the coast. Such was the speed and momentum of the German assault that they seemed undefeatable. Nobody imagined that the attack would be so fierce or so swift. The British army had been guarding the French left flank along the coast, so it was still intact. However, not only were the British and French fighters unable to mount much of a defence, but they had no hope of reinforcements. Worse yet, without these men, Britain had no way to protect itself from German invasion. The fate of a whole nation now lay in the balance.
Then the miracle began.
On 26 May, the British navy began trying to rescue the men trapped at Dunkirk. However as the water near Dunkirk was quite shallow, there was no way to get large navy ships close to the shore to pick up the men. The British government quietly put out the word that small boats—“the Little Ships of Dunkirk”—were needed to help ferry the men to safety. No sooner had the word gone out than it began to spread like wildfire, and just about any kind of boat that could move under its own power—lifeboats, tugs, fishing boats, and yachts—joined vessels from the British navy to rescue the soldiers. Some of these ships were piloted by the civilians who owned them. They were not soldiers, but rather fishermen, lawyers, and doctors, amongst other professions. They wanted to help their country. Most had no weapons but their own brave hearts. All in all, including the Little Ships, there were more than 900 boats that came to help.
The scene at Dunkirk was terrifying: wrecked and burning ships everywhere, thousands of British soldiers standing deep in the water, holding their weapons over their heads, hundreds of thousands more in lines on the beaches. Through all the danger moved the little boats coming to the rescue.
German planes came in to attack, raining down a hail of bombs and machine gun bullets, but the little boats continued to come and take aboard soldiers. Tired men staggering across the beach, fell into the little boats, while others died where they stood, among the bombs and bullets. Fortunately, the British Royal Air Force shot down more than a hundred German planes.
There was no panic. Seldom was there a mad rush for boats. The men moved slowly forward, neck deep in the water. As those in front were dragged aboard the boats, those in the rear moved up, until it was their turn to be pulled up over the side.
Boats that had never carried more than a dozen people at a time were now carrying 60 or more. Somehow, they took their loads out to the larger ships waiting offshore and then returned to the beach to load more men. All through the long hours, the work went on. The crews kept pulling the men aboard, took them out to the larger ships, then returned for more. No matter how many times they made the trip, there were still more men waiting to be rescued.
And then at long last, on the morning of 4 June, with the fires growing pale against the daylight and the dive-bombers sweeping in for the kill, the job was done; the beach was empty. Only then did the fleet turn and start home to England.
It had been hoped that some 30,000 men might be rescued, but 338,000 were saved, including most of the British army, and over 130,000 French troops. However, this was more than just the rescue of several hundred thousand men. These same British soldiers would go on to defend Britain, help free France from German occupation and then triumph over Nazi Germany. Had if not been for the miracle at Dunkirk, the war might well have been lost.
