Wednesday, 3 May 1944
Dear Kitty,
... As you can easily imagine we often ask ourselves here despairingly: “What, oh, what is the use of the war? Why can’t people live peacefully together? Why all this destruction?”
The question is very understandable, but no one has found a satisfactory answer to it so far. Yes, why do they manufacture still larger aircraft and still heavier bombs? Why should millions be spent daily on cannons and yet there’s not a penny available for medical services, artists, or for poor people?
Why do some people have to starve, while there are surpluses rotting in other parts of the world? Oh, why are people so crazy?
I don’t believe that the big men, the politicians and the capitalists alone, are guilty of this warfare. Oh no, the little man is just as guilty, otherwise the people of the world would have risen in revolt long ago! In people, there’s simply an urge to destroy, an urge to kill, to murder and rage, and until all mankind, without exception, undergoes a great change, wars will be waged, everything that has been built up, cultivated, and grown will be destroyed and disfigured, after which mankind will have to begin all over again.
I have often been downcast, but never in despair; I regard our hiding as a dangerous adventure, romantic and interesting at the same time. In my diary I treat all the hardships as amusing. I have made up my mind now to lead a different life from other girls and, later on, different from ordinary housewives. What I’m experiencing here is a good beginning to an interesting life, and that is the sole reason why I have to laugh at the humorous side of the most dangerous moments.
I am young and I possess many hidden qualities; I am young and strong and am living a great adventure; I am still in the midst of it and can’t mutter the whole day long. I have been given a lot: a happy nature, a great deal of cheerfulness and strength. Every day I feel that I am developing inwardly, that the liberation is drawing nearer and how beautiful nature is, how good the people are about me, how interesting this adventure is! Why, then, should I be in despair?
Yours,
Anne


---

Thursday, 15 June 1944
Dear Kitty,
I wonder if it’s because I haven’t been able to poke my nose outdoors for so long that I’ve grown so obsessive about everything to do with nature. I can well remember that there was a time when a deep blue sky, the song of the birds, moonlight and flowers could never have kept me spellbound. That’s changed since I’ve been here.
At Whitsun, for instance, when it was so warm, I stayed awake on purpose until half past eleven one evening in order to gaze at the moon for once by myself. Alas, the sacrifice was all in vain, as the moon gave far too much light and I couldn’t risk opening a window. Another time, some months ago, I happened to be upstairs one evening when the window was open. I didn’t go downstairs until the window had to be shut. The dark, rainy evening, the gale, the moving clouds held me entirely in their power; it was the first time in a year and a half that I’d seen the night face to face. After that evening my longing to see it again was greater than my fear of intruders, rats, and raids on the house. I went downstairs all by myself and looked outside through the windows in the kitchen and the private office. A lot of people are fond of nature, but few are so shut away and isolated from that which can be shared alike by rich and poor.
It’s not imagination on my part when I say that to look upwards at the sky, the clouds, the moon, and the stars makes me calm and patient. Mother Nature makes me humble and prepared to face every blow courageously.
Alas, it has to be said that I am only able--except on a few rare occasions--to look at nature through dirty lace curtains hanging before very dusty windows. And it’s no delight looking through these any longer, because nature is just the one thing which there is no substitute.
Yours,
Anne