(Adapted from Red Star Over China by Edgar Snow)
Some 400 li to the west of An Shun Chang, there was Luding Bridge, the last possible crossing of the Dadu River east of Tibet. Toward this the barefoot Red Army men now set out. If they captured Luding Bridge the whole army could enter central Sichuan. If they failed they would have to fight their way westward toward Li Jiang — a detour of more than a thousand li. Day and night the Red Army moved, pausing only for brief ten-minute rests and meals. “Victory was life,” said Peng Dehuai, “defeat was certain death.” On the second day, White Army reinforcements appeared, hurrying to Luding Bridge. For a whole day these troops raced each other along the stream, but gradually the leading Red soldiers pulled away from the enemy’s tired soldiers.
Luding Bridge was built centuries ago. Thirteen heavy iron chains, with a span of some 100 yards or more, were stretched across the river, their ends imbedded on each side under great piles of cemented rock, beneath the stone bridgeheads. Thick boards lashed over the chains made the road of the bridge, but upon their arrival the Reds found that half of this wooden flooring had been removed, and before them only the bare iron chains swung to a point midway in the stream. At the northern bridgehead an enemy machine gun nest faced them, and behind it were positions held by a regiment of White troops. The bridge should, of course, have been destroyed, but the Sichuanese were sentimental about their few bridges; it was not easy to rebuild them, and they were costly. And who would have thought the Red Army would insanely try to cross on the chains alone? But that was what they did.
No time was to be lost. The bridge must be captured before enemy reinforcements arrived. Once more volunteers were called for. One by one Red soldiers ventured forward to risk their lives, and, of those who offered themselves, thirty were chosen. Hand grenades and Mausers were strapped to their backs, and soon they were swinging out above the boiling river, moving hand over hand, clinging to the swaying iron chains.
The Red Army’s machine guns sprayed the bridgehead with bullets. The enemy replied with machine-gunning of their own, and snipers shot at the Reds high above the water, working slowly toward them. The first warrior was hit, and splashed into the current below; a second fell, and then a third. But as others drew nearer the centre, the bridge flooring somewhat protected them, and most of the enemy bullets glanced off, or ended in the cliffs on the opposite bank.
Probably never before had the Sichuanese seen fighters like these—men for whom soldiering was not just a rice bowl and youths ready to sacrifice themselves to win. Were they human beings or madmen? Was their own morale affected? Did they perhaps not shoot to kill? Did some of them secretly hope that these men would succeed in their attempt? At last one Red crawled up over the bridge flooring, and tossed a grenade with perfect aim into the enemy position. Nationalist officers ordered the rest of the planking torn up. It was already too late. More Reds were crawling into sight. Wax was thrown on the planking, and it began to burn. By then about twenty Reds were moving forward on their hands and knees, tossing grenade after grenade into the enemy machine gun nest.
Suddenly, on the southern shore, their comrades began to shout with joy. “Long live the Red Army! Long live the Revolution! Long live the heroes of the Dadu River!” For the enemy was withdrawing. Running full speed over the remaining planks of the bridge, through the flames licking toward them, the Red Army soldiers hopped into the enemy’s now vacant position and turned the abandoned machine gun against the shore.
More Reds now came over the chains, and arrived to help put out the fire and replace the boards. And soon afterwards the Red division that had crossed at An Shun Chang came into sight, opening a flank attack on the remaining enemy positions, so that in a little while the White troops were completely in flight—either in flight, that is, or with the Reds, for about a hundred Sichuan soldiers here threw down their rifles and turned to join the Reds. In an hour or two the whole army was happily singing its way across the Dadu River into Sichuan. Far overhead roared the planes of Jiang Jieshi, and the Reds yelled out in challenge to them.
For their bravery the heroes of An Shun Chang and Luding Bridge were awarded the Gold Star, highest decoration in the Red Army of China.
