It is 1988, and the popular BBC TV programme That’s Life pans over its studio audience. The presenter then says casually, “Is there anyone in our audience tonight who owes their life to Nicholas Winton? If so, could you stand up please?” At her request everyone in the first four rows stands up except for an elderly man and his wife. The man, Nicholas Winton, turns around in complete disbelief, before sitting back down, attempting to hold back the tears.
The story begins in 1938. Winton, a young stockbroker from London, went to Prague, Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic) to see if he could help refugees—mainly Jews—escape the Nazi terror. Most had no real hope of getting out. But was it possible that their children might be able to slip away to safety? Yes, it was possible, provided foster parents could be found for them in England and a £50 bond was posted per child. Winton spent three weeks in Prague, interviewing parents, collecting names, and taking photos of children. He was then able to see off one small group of children. Finding foster parents and dealing with the British bureaucratic indifference seemed an almost impossible problem, however, he returned to London with a list of names in hand.
Back home, he ran newspaper ads looking for homes for the children, coordinated placement, and got transit permits. He even forged permits when he had to. That summer, eight groups, at least 669 children in all, made it to England with his help. Tragically, a ninth group of 250 children was scheduled to leave, but prevented by the Nazis. Without Winton’s help, nearly all of the 669 children would have become casualties of the Nazi horror. Indeed, such was Nazi brutality that only two of the children in the ninth group survived the war.
When the Second World War began, Winton became an ambulance driver in France and was rescued at Dunkirk. He then joined the British Royal Air Force (RAF). After the war, he quietly engaged himself in charitable activities. His accomplishment in saving those children from near certain death was forgotten, until his wife found a book in his attic with the names of hundreds of children, and asked That’s Life to help her track them down. The episode of the programme which resulted was widely viewed as one of the most moving ever broadcasted, and instantly made Winton a household name. Winton died, honoured and revered, in 2015 at the age of 106.
Of all the lesser known Schindlers who helped Jews escape the Nazi terror, one of the most obscure is Ho Feng-Shan. Born in Hunan Province, Ho became a diplomat for the Chinese government in 1935, and received a post representing China in Vienna, Austria in 1937. In 1938, Austria was occupied by Nazi Germany, and so the office in Vienna became a Chinese consulate for Germany. Shortly afterwards, an international conference was held in Evian-les-Bains, France with the hope of opening the doors for Jewish refugees to leave Germany. Instead, the conference had the opposite effect —no agreement was reached and most of the countries which attended ref used to accept Jewish refugees. Then on the night of 9 November, the infamous Kristallnacht (Crystal Night) occurred, where ruthless Nazi paramilitaries terrorised the Jews, destroying Jewish businesses and sanctuaries. This triggered chaos as Jews sought to leave Germany. However, all the doors seemed shut.
There was one small hope for many Jews — Shanghai. In those days, as an international city, no visas or documents were needed to enter the municipality. The problem was that even though Shanghai did not require a visa, refugees needed to show that they had a valid destination visa to be eligible to leave Germany. In practice, once the refugees left Germany, they could immigrate to any place that would take them; they just wanted to leave Nazi Germany.
Ho had great sympathy for refugees who wanted to leave Germany. Consequently, he decided to give visas to whoever applied. It is not known how many Shanghai visas Ho issued. It is known that he issued nearly 2,000 of them by October 1938, and thousands more until he was transferred back to China in 1940. “It was just natural to feel compassion for those persecuted and help them. It was what had to be done,”Ho said later.
Ho continued to serve as a diplomat until he retired and went to live in San Francisco, in 1973, where he died in 1997. During his own lifetime, not only did Ho’s deeds go completely unrecognised, but even his own family was unaware of his efforts. However, after his death his daughter discovered the part he played in rescuing so many people, and decided to investigate. This has led to widespread international recognition of his heroism, and in 2000 the Israeli organisation Yad Vashem (The World Holocaust Remembrance Centre) honoured him as “Righteous Among the Nations”.
