Early 2020 witnessed an unprecedented war in Wuhan. With the coming of the Year of the Rat came the COVlD-19 virus. Since the founding of the People’s Republic of China, no other virus had attacked so rapidly or been more highly infectious. This unseen enemy called for a tough strategy of long-term prevention and control, requiring Wuhan to lock down for a staggering 76 days--from 23 January to 8 April. The sufferings and sacrifices of tens of millions of Wuhan residents were immense, but they had to bear the attack of the virus in order to protect China and the rest of the world. Remarkably, as the situation grew worse, the people of Wuhan grew closer together. It was their positivity and hope that led to Wuhan’s eventual victory over the epidemic, leaving behind numerous heartfelt stories of unity and bravery.
During the lockdown battle, it was the medical staff who held the frontline. There were 346 national medical teams consisting of over 42,000 medical workers from all over the country who aided Wuhan and Hubei Province. The battle armour worn by these medical troops was the bulky and awkward hazmat suit. It took as long as half an hour to put on, with two protective layers to struggle with, not to mention the intense heat. The medical staff’s job was to treat and take care of the COVID-19 patients, which would seem nearly impossible in such clothing. Many medical staff did not even find the time to eat, drink, or use the toilet during their six-to-eight-hour shifts. “It is by universal love and natural benevolence that I’m summoned here to Wuhan. Even if it were storms of bullets ahead, I would still fight on,” said one doctor from Liaoning Province.
The remarkable Huoshenshan and Leishenshan hospitals were the battlegrounds of the COVID-19 war. The two hospitals were created in breathtaking 10 days and 12 days respectively. It was the selfless dedication of hundreds of designers and over 40,000 construction workers that made it possible, providing a boost of 2,600 lifesaving beds that eventually cared for over 5,000 patients. What is more, to aid in Wuhan’s struggle, temporary treatment centres, known as fangcang, were set up to provide extra beds, greatly helping to turn the tide in the war. And China’s manufacturing industry joined in the fight by significantly increasing its production of face masks and protective gear, creating a defensive barrier for the whole of China.
During the epidemic, Wuhan’s citizens were like an army that was guarding against the disease. But an army marches on its stomach and it was an enormous challenge to feed the more than nine million residents of Wuhan. On average, Wuhan’s residents consume 5,400 tons of grain, 4,000 tons of vegetables, and 1,200 tons of meat every day, and that is not mentioning all the water, electricity, and gas they consume. One electricity worker emphasised the importance of all the logistics work, saying, “As long as the light in each window is on, there is light, hope, warmth, and confidence.” And at a more local level, few noticed the many unsung heroes who were moving courageously around the city during this critical period providing essential services, such as the couriers, sanitation workers, transport employees, police personnel, and media workers. But this all soon changed, with many “normal workers” becoming known and loved by the local residents. With millions of people quarantined at home and unable or unwilling to go outside, these heroes felt a proud sense of the great necessity of their work. They became cherished for their essential, endless effort in keeping the local society woven together into a united whole.
Of course, Wuhan was never alone--the whole of China was its ally, uniting together in a country-wide effort to protect the city and the surrounding area. Millions signed up to join the fight, with 8.81 million volunteers from all over the country doing their bit to help, taking part in more than 460,000 volunteer projects during the first five months of the year, contributing to more than 290 million hours of voluntary service. In addition to this, countries from all over the world joined the Wuhan cause, offering valuable resources and medical expertise. Japan, for instance, donated medical materials and protective gear, some with extremely touching lines of a Chinese poem written on the containers: “Mountains and rivers apart, we share the same winds and moon under the same sky.”
The victory of the Wuhan COVID-19 war proved that solidarity is strength. Following such a sudden outbreak, the whole of China stayed calm and united under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China. When disaster struck, help came from all sides. It just goes to show that when we work together, we can conquer any difficulty. The Wuhan story was also a true representation of modern worldwide unity. When everyone in the world believes they are part of the same global community with a shared future, we can fight together to stay safe and build a better world. No winter lasts forever, and no spring skips its turn.
