The concept of true friendship has been discussed throughout history. The famous essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson described a worthy friend as someone who is there for you in both good times and bad times. “Friendship,” he wrote, “is fit for serene days, and graceful gifts, and country rambles, but also for rough roads and hard fare, shipwreck, poverty, and persecution.” But what are the defining traits that contribute to the making of a true friend? Broadly speaking, they can be split into three categories: positivity, care, and trustworthiness.
Basically, you will never be a true friend unless you are positive. And if you are positive, you will be optimistic about life--that means you always look on the bright side and make the most of a bad situation. You see the humour in life, which, in fun, can really help your friends when they are in distress. A true friend is a fun-lover, someone who actively tries to enjoy life, being practical and proactive. Self-confidence is another attractive trait in a friend. Everyone loves to be around a confident person; so much more can be achieved when people live their life to the full. Confidence can actually be contagious, meaning that, over time, a true friend helps their friends flourish and become more confident. A true friend is also inspiring, encouraging their friends to live up to their potential rather than waste large chunks of time on fruitless tasks.
While being positive does count for a lot, you also have to make sure that you are caring. Needless to say, true friends are empathetic. For example, how do you react when your friend does something in a strange way? Your reaction does matter. Friends see things from their own perspective, so put yourself in their shoes and see things from their perspective. However busy you are, you ought to fake time out to show empathy towards their situation without being judgmental. And true friends are supportive in both good and bad times. You must always be there to give your friends the congratulation and assurance that they truly deserve and need. Be on your friend’s side, cheering them up and cheering them on. Tied to this is the trait of being understanding. Learn the art of being a good listener, caring about what your friends say, giving them the time and opportunity to share their inner thoughts and fears. Lending them an ear so they can talk about their stressful day can really help. Finally, show them you are genuinely undemanding by never asking them to do something that would compromise their principles.
Perhaps the most important true-friend category is trustworthiness, which is often the “make or break” element in a friendship. In this category, one essential trait is honesty. Always tell your true friends the truth, even if if causes a problem. It could be something that they are unaware of, or even something that they are reluctant to admit. It shows you have their best interests at heart. It is you, an honest friend, who keeps them on track. Another trait is dependability. People need someone they can count on, someone worthy of their trust, someone to reveal their true self to, and someone who will keep their secrets a secret. And, as a true friend, you are there for them--you are their rock. In fact, your friends see you as an extended part of themselves--someone they can rely on to help carry their burden, both physically and psychologically. After all, only a friend that gives a friend in need a hand can be a true friend. In addition to the above, loyalty is an indispensable trait of a true friend. You never betray a friend but rather stay on their side and stick up for them, even if if means you yourself have to suffer something in return. It is this willingness to “take a hit” for others that makes you a friend of great worth.
In closing, being a true friend is to show a deep commitment to another person. Friendship is like a garden--it takes time and patience to nurture. And if is quality, not quantity, that counts. By no means is it an easy undertaking, but the effort is more than worth it--because by being a true friend, you will gain a true friend in return.
