(Adapted From Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen)
Elizabeth Bennet had met Mr Darcy, a rich, handsome landowner, several times. She disliked him for his proud ways and coarse manners. When she sees him at his aunt’s house, she is astonished when he proposes marriage to her.
After a brief interval, he came towards her in a breathless manner. “In vain have I struggled! It will not do. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I adore and love you.” Elizabeth’s astonishment was beyond expression. She stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent. Her silence spurred him on to continue. He spoke fluently and warmly but was quite explicit about her low social rank, which led to Elizabeth’s immediate disapproval of him as a husband.
At first, in spite of disliking him, she did not discount his affection; she was sensitive to the pain she was going to cause him when she declined his offer of marriage. But as he continued to articulate in his arrogant way, she began to care less for his feelings. He concluded by hoping that she would accept his hand in marriage. He spoke of his anxiety, but it was evident from his face that he felt sure of her answer. It was this attitude of arrogance that gave Elizabeth the confidence to answer bluntly. “Sorry, sir, I cannot marry you.”
Mr Darcy listened to her words with great surprise. He struggled to control the expression on his face. The pause was dreadful. At length he asked, “And this is all the reply that I am to have! I might, perhaps, ask why I am refused so abruptly?”
“I might as well enquire”, replied Elizabeth, “why you told me that you liked me against your will? But there are other things! Do you think that I would accept the man who has ruined the happiness of my beloved elder sister?”
As she spoke these words, Mr Darcy’s face flushed with colour; but the emotion was short, and he listened without attempting to interrupt while she continued.“I have every reason in the world to think ill of you,”Elizabeth explained. “It was you who opposed the marriage of my sister with your friend.” With assumed calmness, Mr Darcy replied , “I did every thing in my power to separate my friend from your sister, and I rejoice in my success.”
Elizabeth looked astonished. “And this is not the only reason I dislike you. Long ago, my initial opinion of you was decided when I was informed by Mr Wickham of his hardships.”
“You take a special interest in that gentleman’s concerns,”said Darcy less calmly.
“I certainly do. Who couldn’t help but feel sorry for his hardships?”
“His hardships,” repeated Darcy irritably . “have been great indeed!”
“He is poor because of you,” replied Elizabeth. “He is innocent yet you shrug off his hardships with extreme ease.”
“And this,” cried Darcy as he walked with quick steps across the room, “is your opinion of me! Thank you for being so outspoken. My faults are heavy indeed! However, I am not ashamed of my actions, nor the feelings I have related to you in honesty. They were natural and just. And could you expect me to congratulate myself on wedding someone whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?”
Elizabeth felt herself growing angry. “You are mistaken, Mr Darcy if you think your patronising nature in offering me your hand in marriage would have pleased me. In fact, it spared me of any sentiment I might have felt in refusing you if you had behaved more like a gentleman.”
He replied politely and coldly. “You have said quite enough, madam. Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.” And with these words he hastily left the room.
