Do you feel that modern technology is leading to too much individualism in society? Have you noticed the people around you are often glued to their mobile devices, lost in their own world, taking no notice of the others around them? Do you think schools and workplaces lay too much emphasis on individual performance, overlooking the advantages of teamwork? It is factors like these that can lead us to feelings of isolation and unhappiness, which can trigger serious social problems. Bearing this in mind, we must recognise the valuable role cooperation has played in our past and realise its impact on our present and future.
Ever since the beginning of humankind, cooperation has been key to our survival. Take, for example, primitive tribes and their use of common symbols to unite their members together. The simplest form of this was the worshipping of a totem--often an animal figure, such as a bull or a snake. By a group of people following the same totem, its individual members would work together as a related unit. Dwelling in this cooperative environment was a very successful means for everyone to prosper. Not only did cooperation give people a sense of security and structure, it also gave them a sense of belonging and purpose. Due to these positive factors, cooperative communities began to evolve everywhere, with people clustering together in groups in order to benefit from the advantages of cooperation.
From a psychology perspective. cooperation is fundamental to us all. It stops us from feeling alone, it gives us joy, and it provides emotional support and encouragement. As Alfred Adler, a world renowned Austrian psychiatrist, commented, “All human judgments of value and success are founded, in the end, upon cooperation; this is the great shared commonplace of the human race.” Adler also stated that a lack of cooperative spirit can lead to serious problems and criminality. Conversely. cooperation with others has been found to greatly benefit students and employees, significantly boosting their productivity and happiness levels. According to Marilee Sprenger, author of The Leadership Brain for Dummies, cooperation increases both happiness and motivation: “Working together and helping each other releases brain chemicals that enhance motivation, pleasure, and bonding... The brain strongly desires these feel-good chemicals, and so the team is intrinsically motivated.”
Today. all around the world, from individuals to groups to countries, the usage of cooperation brings great results. As Aristotle put it, “The whole is greater than the sum of its parts.” This means that when individuals work together as a team, the resulting group effort can be much more productive than any solo efforts amounted together. This is because many tasks are impossible to complete individually. On the other hand, as a team, members can combine their mixed strengths and work as a whole to achieve much more. This principle can be confirmed by any sports coach; the most successful teams are those that focus on teamwork. Exclusively relying on individual skills does not bring consistent success--merging together in a coordinated effort does. In addition, over the centuries, many of our greatest discoveries and inventions were the result of individuals working together, building upon previous findings to accumulate knowledge and accomplish great things. And the same concept applies at a global level. Just look at international organisations such as the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Cooperation paves the way to providing much-needed help all around the world. To put it simply. we all fare much better when we look out for each other and cooperate.
To conclude, when we consider our natural traits, it is clear that we are fundamentally cooperative beings, and this cannot be ignored. Cooperation has been a crucial part of human history and our survival. So, while many people today may seem to be absorbed info the digital world, we have not lost our capacity for cooperation. Rather, we can find new ways using modem technology to upgrade our cooperative abilities with one another and so realise our full potential as humans, compelling us to accomplish great goals through teamwork.
