(Adapted from Aeneid by Virgil)
Fancying the Greeks were gone and had finally ended their siege, the city of Troy put its ten-year grief away. Citizens of all ages were overjoyed to hear the news that the enemy had finally withdrawn. The gates were flung open and they went cheerfully to see the abandoned shore, where a mountainous wooden horse stood alone. Some gazed astonished at is impressively large size. Some said that it should be drawn within the walls and set in the city while some suggested either throwing this evil gift into the sea or burning it. The wavering crowd was divided in high dispute.
At that, Laocoon, a priest, ran hotly to the shore, crying. “Trust not the horse, Trojans!
I fear the Greeks even when they offer gifts.” Thus speaking, he threw his spear with great strength at the creature’s belly: the spear stood shivering, and the belly sounded hollow and uttered a groan.
Shepherds meanwhile dragged before the king a man with his hands tied behind his back. He stood, looking frightened, and cast his eyes around the crowd, “Alas!”he cried,“What is the last doom that awaits my misery? I have no place among the Greeks, and the Trojans demand my blood!” Hearing his sad story, the crowd’s spit changed, and they encouraged him to speak.
“Oh King,” said the trembling man, “Whatever if may take, I will confess to you the truth; nor will I deny myself of Greek birth--nor, if Fortune has made me. Sinon, unhappy, shall she change me into a liar.”
The man named Sinon continued to speak, “Often would the Greeks have taken fight, leaving Troy behind in weariness of the long war. Yet the wild seas barred their way, and a sacrifice was demanded. The decision was made that I would be appointed for the altar! However, I broke free and hid all night in the grass, till the Greeks had set sail. I have no hope of ever seeing my home nor my sweet children again!”
At his tears, the Trojans took pity on him. The command was given that his bonds be undone. The king spoke kindly, “Whoever you are, now forget the Greeks; you shall be ours. And unfold the truth to my question: Why have the Greeks built this horse?” Sinon answered, “It was built as a gift for Athena for their safe return home. They made it this huge size, so you may not draw it within the city and protect your people beneath Athena.”
As soon as Sinon finished, a terrible sight appeared. Two snakes advanced together towards Laocoon. At first, they twisted around his two children, and bit deep into their arms. As he came to help them, they twisted around him too. The priest struggled to get rid of them but could not and yelled in great pain. The two snakes glided away to the sanctuary of Athena and took shelter under the goddess’ shield. A strange horror overwhelmed everyone. Laocoon, they say, was doomed as he pierced the horse with his guilty spear. And yet all cried out that the horse must be drawn to its new home and prayers made to Athena.
The Trojans opened their city and set to work. They fixed rolling wheels under the horse’s feet and tied bands on its neck. Around it, boys and girls joyfully sang and laid their hands on the ropes. Slowly it moved, sliding into the city. Four times the sound of metal rang out within the horse. Yet the citizens urged it on.
Meanwhile the heavens wheeled on, and night rose from the sea, wrapping in her vast shadow earth and sky and the tricks of the Greeks. Throughout the city the Trojans were stretched in silent sleep. But under the quiet moon the Greek army secretly sailed back to the shore they now knew so well. Sinon stealthily opened the horse and all the Greek warriors hidden inside it climbed out. They quickly swept across the city that was still buried in drunken sleep. They cut down the watchmen, and at the open gates they welcomed their comrades and united their troops.
The noises grew louder and the clash of metal swelled. A Trojan general, shook himself from sleep with alerted ears: as when fire caught a corn field while south winds were furious, sweeping away the smiling crops, and then consumed the forest; the helpless shepherd on the mountain heard the roar.
The horse, standing high above the city, looked down as more armed men poured forward. Sinon scattered fire here and there, arrogant in victory. Thousands of soldiers had passed through the gates. The narrow streets were now full of weapons; shining points of steel stood drawn, ready for combat.
“Hearts of bravery!” the brave Trojan general shouted at his fellows, “Let us die, and rush on their weapons! The conquered have one safety, to hope for none!”
Then, like wolves in a black fog, whom hunger had driven blindly forward; through the weapons of the enemy, they marched their way straight to certain death.
