Although thousands of years old, the influence of ancient legends and tales on modern English language and culture should not be underestimated. Through centuries of repetition, the stories, characters, words, and phrases of these ancient stories have become a frequent occurrence in everyday discourse. Those of ancient Greece and Rome constitute the largest contribution in the West, giving many words, phrases and idioms to modern English. Therefore, understanding a culture’s ancient stories and their cultural connotations can really help us understand many aspects of the language. Here are some common examples.
An “Achilles’ heel” is a vulnerable or weak spot on someone or something that otherwise appears strong. This is named after the legendary warrior of the Trojan War. The legend has it that Achilles’ mother held her infant son by the heel and plunged him into the mythical river between the world of the living and the dead. Doing this made him invulnerable, except for his heel. After being hailed as the hero of the Trojan War, Achilles was killed by a poisoned arrow that pierced the flesh of his heel. The tendon at the back of foot is also known as the “Achilles tendon”. The Trojan War also gave us the term “Trojan horse” which is used today in computer security to describe a wicked programme that appears helpful at first or is hidden in something else. The legend also led to the expression “beware of Greeks bearing gifts.”
In Homer’s other classic work, the Odyssey, Odysseus must drive his ship past one of two sea monsters: Charybdis, a perilous ship-swallowing monster, and Scylla, a six-headed monster. The hero chooses Scylla as the “lesser of two evils”, but if you are stuck in a situation where you have to choose between two equally unpleasant things, you are “between Scylla and Charybdis”. In addition, today the word “odyssey” means a long exotic journey with a lot of interesting and exciting adventures.
If someone says he or she has the “sword of Damocles” hanging over him or her, it means there is a bad or unpleasant thing that might happen any time which is making him or her anxious or scared. Damocles was a courtier of the Greek king, Dionysius the Younger. He told his king how fortunate he was to be a powerful king. Dionysius offered to switch places with Damocles for one day, but he had a sword placed above the throne supported by a single horse’s hair. he anxiety made Damocles beg to change back when he realised that with great power comes great anxiety and danger as well.
The mighty Hercules is a legendary character known for great strength and the twelve seemingly impossible tasks he had to complete as a punishment from the king of Greece. He had to kill a lion, whose golden fur was invulnerable. Today a Herculean task is something that requires great strength, determination, or effort.
Another great influence on language and culture was the storyteller Aesop, whose fables have been passed down in multiple forms for more than 2,000 years. These simple tales used animals to depict moral situations and were concluded with a maxim to educate the reader. Many phrases and sayings still in common use emerged from these tales. The fable of “The Fox and The Grapes” tells of a fox trying to get some grapes from a vine. Because he cannot reach them, he decides they are probably sour anyway. The phrase “sour grapes” is now used to describe someone who fails to get what he or she wants, and so speaks critically and unfavourably about that thing. “The Boy Who Cried Wolf” is just another tale told by Aesop. To “cry wolf” means to raise a false alarm and so not to be believed when a real problem arises, or to lie repeatedly until no one can trust what is said.
The names of characters from legends and tales are also commonly used today to describe those with specific characteristics. For example, to call a man an “Adonis” means he is young and extremely attractive, like the shepherd boy who became the lover of the Greek goddess of love, Aphrodite. Someone is called a “narcissist” if he or she is obsessed with his or her own appearance like Narcissus, the Greek who fell in love with his own reflection. To “play Cupid” means to help start a romantic relationship between two people, like the Roman god of love, depicted as a baby boy with a bow and arrow. Someone called a “Cassandra” usually predicts that something bad will happen but is not believed. The god Apollo had given her the power to predict, but she tricked him, so Apollo cursed her by stopping people from believing her.
Legendary names are also the source of many common words. For example, January is named after Janus, the god of beginnings in Roman myth. Saturday is named after the Roman god, Saturn, as is the planet. Thursday comes from the Old English word meaning “Thor’s Day”, named after the god of thunder Thor.
Language and culture develop over a long time, building upon what has come before. Elements of these ancient stories have stayed with us because they touch on something eternal in our human experience and create a connection between our collective past and the modern world.
