Young people today will be concerned with what the future might hold, with many challenges facing them. In general, one might simply aspire to be happy and secure with enough to enjoy a good lifestyle. The question of personal wealth inevitably arises, but one cannot and should not always rely on others for money. However, if one only gets a little pocket money or cash from a part-time job, it is hard to imagine a future of personal wealth becoming a reality. The truth is that personal wealth stems from investment, and there is no amount too small to start investing, especially when one has the benefit of time! This is where the power of compounding can work miracles.
Understanding the secret of compound interest or compounding is a fundamental part of increasing our financial literacy and is a method whereby we can gain control over our money and the freedom that brings. First, we must understand how interest works. Simple interest is the amount of extra money you get back when you put a sum of money in a bank account or other investment. This money you put in is a “deposit”, also known as the “principal” or “capital” of the investment. The bank will offer a rate of interest for a certain period of time, say 3% for one year. Therefore, if one makes a deposit of ￥1,000, after one year you will have ￥1,030: your principal, plus 3%.
Compound interest is when interest is paid on the original deposit, and, most importantly, with any interest already earned. By earning interest on the principal AND the interest already earned on top, the overall amount begins to grow at a greater pace over time. By keeping our ￥1,030 invested for longer without withdrawing any money, we end up with more than if we spend the interest. As this chart illustrates, at first the two types give the same result, but then by earning “interest on interest”, the compounding curve begins to exceed that of simple interest.
The next thing to appreciate is that compound interest can work for you or against you. Albert Einstein is purported to have hailed it as the “eighth wonder of the world”, however added that those who understand it earn it, but those who do not, pay it! Whereas interest is paid to you when you deposit money, it is charged to you when you borrow it. Interest rates are always higher when borrowing than saving! That is why this is a “secret” because many people may not fully understand how it works and therefore pay it rather than earn it.
Another hint that helps you use compounding to your advantage is known as the handy “Rule of 72” This tells us how many years it will take a deposit or investment to double in value. We divide 72 by the rate of interest, for example 5%. That gives us 72/5 = 14.4. So, if we invest ￥1,000 at an unchanging rate of 5%, it will reach ￥2,000 in just over 14 years. If we can get a rate of 6%, it will only take 12 years, and 10%, just over 7 years. Again, this illustrates the a dvantage of starting early; although one might not be able to find a 10% return over a long period, compounding at a lower rate still gives a good result over time.
Of course, any attempt to forecast future returns assumes a level of interest in the future. This rate of interest is influenced by many factors and cannot always be guaranteed. In the world today, interest rates are historically very low, so most bank accounts pay litle interest. Although compounding will still work over a long period of time, in times of historically low interest rates it is especially important to start saving early. If you look for a higher interest rate to be paid on the capital, you will have to look to other investments than a simple bank account. There are many other ways to invest, but they are riskier. All investments involve a degree of risk of some kind, so be cautious and not invest more money than you can afford to lose. Don’t invest in something you don’t really understand or just because everyone else seems to be doing it. It is also essential to comply with the tax laws of your country as you may be liable for tax.
It may seem that as a young person who does not earn a lot, you will find it difficult to enrich yourself financially to prosper in the near future, but this ignores perhaps the biggest asset a young person has: time! Therefore, the secret of this “eighth wonder” is to start saving today!
