His face smiling with delight, 24-year-old Brit, Jack Collins, opens the door of his company’s office in the heart of Shanghai, and introduces himself in flawless putonghua. After a tour of the office, whilst explaining his start-up and introducing all his team, all still delivered in fluent Chinese, we sit down at an open desk. “It’s a great idea, but why did you want to bring it to life in China ?” I ask him in English.
Collins is one of a growing number of foreign entrepreneurs choosing China as a base for their start-up businesses. With a master’s in business from a prestigious university, Collins’ love of technology and fashion led him to Shanghai, to set up his AR (augmented reality) app. He shows me how it works but asks me not to reveal too much. It uses AR and a social network for fashion P2P e-commerce. It is marvellous, and Collins hopes it will be a game-changer.
But why China ? London, Collins’ home, has many start-ups. “Chinese people are more open to new technology, and new lifestyle, mobile, and digital developments,” says Collins. “The English still do things more traditionally, so there is more potential here. One cannot come to China and not be carried away by its momentum.”The incentives for foreign start-ups to come to China are also clear, he says. China has promising demographics, with an immense market in its growing middle class. It also attracts a huge amount of investment, and Shanghai benefits from being a free-trade zone, with additional government funds and grants to help the start-up sector grow.
As Collins and other foreign talents have realised, China’s cities are among the largest and most active regions of entrepreneurial activity in the world today. But why did Collins deem Shanghai the best choice? “Beijing and Shenzhen are straight-up tech hubs. Shanghai is different. It’s cosmopolitan and China’s fashion capital, so start-ups have a synthesis of tech, e-commerce, and lifestyle elements.” Shanghai’s start-up ecosystem generates lots of activity. with lots of peers to collaborate with. “Everybody here has an idea that’s going to revolutionise the world. Not all will succeed, but it still makes it an exciting place to be!” With an expatriate population of over 200,000, the largest in China, it has repeatedly been voted by expats as the most attractive Chinese city to work in. This foreign-friendly culture has been cultivated over time and with administrative help. The visa system was previously something of a deterrent for foreign start-ups, but this has been changed to welcome them in. As an eligible applicant it only took a short trip to the city’s exit-entry administration bureau and an interview for Collins. “I was approved promptly after,” says Collins, “It was a great moment.”
However, the buzz around start-ups here should not give the idea of a creative paradise. Many start-ups are aborted. Great persistence is needed to succeed. “It’s not all roses! Failures are common. Foreign start-ups should think twice before taking the plunge. But the nature of innovation is learning from failure,” says Collins. Although China is potentially a big market, there are many local start-ups competing for the same market. “Doing business here is certainly easier if you speak Chinese though it is not essential as many speak English. And although I am fluent, there are still mistakes and misunderstandings!” he laughs. But seeing failures as a positive just adds fuel to the fire.“You learn to let it fuel your passion. Ultimately, if you want to succeed in China, you really have to be here, engaging with the culture and language,” he says conclusively. Cross-culture communication and understanding is clearly a crucial factor in taking a start-up to a global level in Collins’ eyes.
Looking forward, which start-up trends does he think will shape the coming decade ? New technology will always trend strongly, he says, with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) leading the field.
However, Collins believes there is already a move away from what originally made the “start-up” such a buzzword. “The culture is still seen as ‘cool’. Some have the wrong attitude, that it is an easy way to make a quick fortune.”Collins says this has led to failures which may dry up future investment. “I think the culture will adapt accordingly to become a valid and universal pattern of business creation. We need entrepreneurs with an adventurous spirit but also the right attitude, who are doing it for the right reasons.” In fact, this is already happening.“More start-ups are being founded with strong ethical and environmental principles, focussing on social responsibility, and sustainable products and services. There are many young Chinese here doing this right now. That has grown organically from our generations facing the great challenges of the future.”
As he bids me farewell, it is impossible not to let some of Collins’ passion rub off on you. Yet he is just one of many expats and Chinese taking advantage of the welcoming start-up climate and helping turn China into one of the future leaders of innovation in the 21st century. In a way, the idea of the start-up is as old as the first entrepreneur. It is just done with the benefit of modern technology. And a country that cultivates a thriving start-up culture gives young people with a good idea the best chance of making that a reality and changing the world. Simple as that!
