On 26 August 1980, Shenzhen was given a new mission to become a trailblazer in China’s opening up. On that day, the National People’s Congress accepted the proposal to establish the southern city as China’s first special economic zone (SEZ). This was the brainchild of the late leader and chief architect of China’s reform, Deng Xiaoping. Such an experiment, combining socialism with Chinese characteristics and a market-oriented economy, turned a tiny fishing village to a small city of just over 330,000 inhabitants then into a modem high-tech metropolis of 17 million people. Shenzhen’s location made it the perfect touchstone for this project. About 40 years ago, with the main industry being fishing, its gross domestic product (GDP) was only 270 million yuan ($41.7 million). In contrast, by 2020 its GDP had skyrocketed to 2.77 trillion yuan ($428 billion). It is therefore no wonder that this incredible growth led to the description, the “Miracle of Shenzhen”.
Being selected as an SEZ endowed Shenzhen with certain powers beyond other cities in China.
The city gained a degree of autonomy to pursue reforms that kept it “one step ahead” of the rest of the country. It benefited from lower tax rates and gained more control over economic development including the authority to approve foreign investment. The Shenzhen SEZ was initially driven by the following:
· Construction primarily relying on foreign capital through foreign direct investment (FDI)
· Utilising Sino-foreign joint ventures (JV), partnerships, and wholly foreign-owned enterprises (WFOE) as primary economic forms
· Producing primarily for export
· Market forces driving economic activities
With Shenzhen being firmly established as an SEZ in 1980, a wave of economic progression was triggered that spread across the country in the following decades. Xiamen in Fujian Province, together with Shenzhen, was accepted as an SEZ, and so were Zhuhai and Shantou in Guangdong Province. In addition, Hainan Province also became an SEZ in 1988. This process was accompanied by “open door” measures, such as making 14 cities “open coastal cities” in 1984. Then in 1985, the two deltas of the Yangtze River and Pearl River, and the Xiamen-Zhangzhou-Quanzhou triangle in southern Fujian were approved as coastal economic open zones (EOZs) . These policies have made an important contribution in making China the second largest economy in the world in 2020.
Shenzhen evolved from mainly developing foreign trade to pursuing high-level opening up in an all-round way. Now Shenzhen being the high-tech and manufacturing hub of southern China, people often refer to the city and the surrounding region as the “world factory”. It is home to the headquarters of several of China’s largest and most well-known companies, such as Huawei, DJI (Dajiang), and Tencent, whose global influence has also helped the city to become known as China’s “Silicon Valley”. Sectors such as high-tech telecommunications, artificial intelligence (Al), new energy, and cultural industries are the new engines for economic growth. Shenzhen embraced independent and innovative industries as the dominant strategy for future development, giving it a pivotal role in the implementation of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). All this has contributed to a city that moves at great velocity and efficiency, leading to the expression that “One week in Shenzhen is like one month everywhere else.”
The vitality and dynamism of this southern city is reflected in its inhabitants, whose lifestyle and spirit embody the essence of the principles on which the modem city was founded. This prompted the municipal government to describe Shenzhen citizens as “pioneering and innovative, honest and law-abiding, pragmatic and efficient, united and dedicated” in 2003. A population of enterprising people, consisting of a majority of migrant workers—leading to the title “Migrant city”—to PhD scholars, makes Shenzhen a core part of the socio-demographic revolution across the country.
A generous and tolerant attitude led to the title of China’s “Most charitable city” for several consecutive years. This spirit has also been felt across the globe. Shenzhen is elected one of the top ten Chinese cities popular with expatriates, who choose to settle there for the opportunities to prosper and its open-minded character. It has close connections with 23 sister cities and more than 60 friendship cities all around the world including Houston, Turin, and Brisbane.
The inhabitants of Shenzhen benefit from 21st century infrastructure. As well as cutting edge technology, there is an extensive public transportation system. Shenzhen’s well-managed and successful education system promises a bright future for students. There having been such a strong future-oriented vision focus on innovation, Shenzhen is like wise a model for sustainable economic development and green lifestyles. An ecological garden city, half of its total area is under environmental protection in which construction is banned. The unremitting modern development of an area with over 6,700 years of human activity has been a quest to create a modem 21st century city, integrating new technologies and grand buildings with human-scale street life, and green open spaces.
Shenzhen’s triumph over the last four decades has been a “miracle in industrialisation, urbanisation, and modernisation”, validating the city as a development prototype for not only other Chinese cities but cities across the planet.
