(Adapted from Odyssey by Homer)
When the dawn came, the Cyclops again lit his fire and miked his sheep. As soon as he had finished his work, he clutched up two more of my men, and made them his grim morning’s meal. The fact that this monster could so easily catch and eat us was truly horrible. Presently, with great ease, he rolled the stone away from the entrance of the cave in which we were his captives. After driving out his sheep, he at once put it back again, as easily as though he were merely putting the lid on a quiver of arrows. As soon as he had done so he yelled after his sheep to drive them on to the mountain, so I was left to devise some way of taking revenge.
After a while a plan came to me. The Cyclops had a large piece of wood, a great club, which was lying in the cave. It was so huge that one could only compare it to the size of a great ship. I went up to this club and cut off about six feet of it, then my men and I made it smooth at one end, bringing it to a point and charred it in the fire to make it harder. When this was done, I hid it and chose four men to help me lift it to blind the Cyclops while he slept. The monster had no idea what I intended to do. In the evening he came back, shepherded his flocks into the cave to milk them, and put the stone back in its place. When he had finished, he grabbed two more of my men, and made his brutal supper of them.
So, I went up to him with a bucket of wine in my hands. “Look here, Cyclops.” I pleaded in earnest, “you have preyed on many of my men, so take this and drink some wine, that you may see what kind of liquor we had on board my ship. It is an offering to you, in the hope that you will take compassion upon us.”
He clutched the bucket and drank. He was so delighted with the taste of the wine that he demanded another. “This drink, this nectar of the gods, is the greatest thing I have ever tasted!” he said, “Give me more, and tell me your name at once; then I will give you a present that you will be glad to have.”
I gave him three more buckets, and three times did he drain them immediately. When I saw that the wine had gone to his head, I said to him as sincerely as I could, “Cyclops, my name is Noman; this is what everyone has always called me. Give me now the present you promised.”
But the Cyclops, revealing himself to be a truly wicked beast, said, “Then I will eat all Noman’s men before Noman himself, and will keep Noman for the last. This is my present for him!”
As he spoke, he reeled, and fell onto his back with a great thud, and a deep drunken sleep took hold upon him. My men gathered round me, their hearts filled with courage. We drove the sharp end of the club into the monster’s eye. Driven crazy by rage and pain, he shouted to the other Cyclopes who lived near him; and they gathered round his cave when they heard him crying and asked what the matter with him was.
“What burdens you our friend,” they said, “that you make such a noise, breaking the stillness of the night, that prevents us from sleeping? Surely no man is crying off your sheep. Surely no man is trying to kill you either!”
But the Cyclops shouted to them from inside the cave, “Noman is killing me!”
“Then,” said they,“if no man is attacking you, you must be ill; when Zeus makes people ill, there is no help for them. You had better pray to your father, the god of the sea!”
They went away, but the Cyclops, groaning in agony, felt about with his hands till he found the stone and took it from the door; then he sat in the doorway and stretched his hands in front of it to catch anyone going out with the sheep, for he thought we might be foolish enough to attempt this.
The male sheep were huge with deep and heavy black fleeces, so I bound them together in threes with cord. There were to be three sheep to each man, who would fasten themselves under their bellies to hide. This might be the last chance for all of us to escape death. Thus, we waited still as rocks in fear at the monster’s anger till morning came. When it did, the male sheep hurried out to feed, and, despite the dangerous and blinded monster violently thrashing around the cave to find us, we escaped the horror of that prison into the fresh air, our hearts lifted though still heavy at the loss of our friends. We left that damaged monster to his fate.
