Although we live in a globalised world where trade takes place on a grand scale between huge multinational entities, much economic activity still takes place between individuals on a much smaller scale. Until recent years, the term sharing economy was relatively unknown, but today the situation is vastly different, with an abundance of enterprises making this a leading business model across the world. The sharing economy is defined as the peer-to-peer (P2P) activity of acquiring, providing, or sharing goods and services, usually facilitated by an online platform. The focus is on sharing assets that are not fully utilised, in a way that improves efficiency and sustainability but also community, while challenging the more traditional concept of ownership.
People have assets such as a house or car, but also their skills and time. There is often scope for them to utilise these assets better. For example, if one lives in a city popular with tourists and has a spare room that is idle most of the time, why not let a tourist rent it? Then one can make some money, and the tourist gets a cheaper room and is also the beneficiary of direct contact with a local resident. Another successful business within the new model is “ridesharing”. Car owners pay a lot to purchase and maintain an automobile, but it usually sits unused for more than 90% of the time. The owner might commute to work by themselves in a car that can hold four people, so why not find others who take the same route and maximise efficiency? They could also supplement their income by using the car as a local taxi on the weekend on condition that the local regulations allow. The same principle has been used to allow people to share their parking place for others to park in, their spare space for others to store their stuff. Today one can rent anything you own to others such as a bike, Wi-Fi, or even kitchen utensils!
The simplicity of the sharing economy is something one might have expected to have appeared sooner; however, it was the rise of high-speed Internet and perhaps most importantly, the predominance of smart phones that really made it viable. Part of the spirit of the sharing economy, at least in its preliminary stages, was also to give some power and control back to individuals and small companies. These new methods of economic interaction often bypassed the “middleman”, such as big companies, by putting people in direct contact with each other, the “peer to peer”. By doing things on this scale, cash is put in the pockets of the community rather than big companies. The sharing economy is described as “disruptive” because if has flourished quickly and changed the way business is done for everyone. It also led to an explosion of innovation as people and companies realised the potential of this new way of doing things, creating connected models based on similar principles.
The crowd economy is a related model that illustrates this. Usually, a new business would approach a bank or financial entity to borrow money for a new product or service. But now crowdfunding puts someone with an idea for a product or service directly in contacf with potential customers. The product or service is presented through an app, website or social media, and interested customers can pledge money for it. This money is then used as capital for the product to be manufactured. People funding the project are rewarded with the final product, further benefits and get to build a direcf relationship with the creator. Crowdsourcing is a connected term, used for example to get information or help for a project directly from a large group of people.
Nonetheless, as is perhaps inevitable within a capitalist economy, the purity of the original idea has met with problems as it has developed in the real world. The sharing economy has seen much controversy in recent years, and in many ways has become a victim of its own success. Many businesses that appear to be part of the sharing economy are not really “sharing” in the way originally conceived. For example, companies began to use online platforms to rent multiple properties that they then rented themselves. In some major cities this led to problems where local residents found a lack of properties to rent. The new models also exposed holes in local regulation. Big companies began to use the term to sound trendy too, and to cope with the disruption this evolution of business brought. Therefore, the term today has expanded to include business to business (B2B) interactions. This will undoubtedly see the value of the sharing economy continue to rise as more and more traditional models are disrupted, and companies and individuals look to this versatile idea and the latest technology to do business in the future.
