Hello! My name is Zhan Bingbing.
Lately, all of us have seen Chinese people on TV in far-off places in the world, helping other countries to develop. We see Chinese workers building roads in the Congo, a port in Pakistan, railways in Panama, and an airport in Sri Lanka. And we see Chinese miners, oil workers, agricultural experts, mechanics, and doctors working in nearly every corner of the world. And some people may ask, “Is it worth it? Why help people overseas when China has many areas that are still in need of development?”
I had the same questions myself. But for me, it was much more personal. You see, my mother is a medical doctor, and for the last two years, she has been working as a volunteer consultant in Tanzania, Africa, as a part of a medical team sent by the Chinese government.
To be honest, when my mother first left for Africa, I was upset. My mother cooked me dinner every night, and she took good care of me. But more importantly, she was my best friend. We talked together, we spent our leisure time together, and except for school and work, we were never apart. So I was unhappy about her leaving without even asking for my input.
But then I began to hear about the work she was doing in Tanzania, a country that has many health problems, and now I am singing a different tune. Many dangerous diseases which are rare in China are quite commonly contracted in Tanzania. And, while the country is quite beautiful and has much natural wealth, many of the people are quite poor and live without things we take for granted, such as electricity, running water, cars and good transport systems, and supermarkets. One project that my mother worked on was helping to build a cardiac hospital. Prior to this, if a Tanzanian had a heart condition and needed surgery, they would have to go abroad. Since this was quite expensive, many people went without medical treatment and some even died. Now, not only are Tanzanians helped by the hospital, but people in neighbouring countries are helped as well. It has made a big difference to their lives. My mother also does a circuit of the rural villages to provide medical treatment, help those with disabilities, and provide consultation and training for local doctors. In addition, her team has given patients a new malaria treatment invented in China, and this has saved many lives.
Today, I want to relay to you that I’m proud of the work my mother has done, and I am now supportive of it. Is her work worth it? Yes, to the lives of the people she is helping, it is worth it.
But by any criteria this work is worth it to us as well, because it shows that we are global citizens interested in world stability, and that we feel responsible for others and are ready to build a community with a shared future for mankind. Everyone deserves a fair chance in life. When I think of all the things that we as Chinese citizens can be most proud of, helping others comes at the top of this list. Now that I understand how important my mother’s work is, I’ve decided to become a volunteer myself to help people in other lands. In the future, I pray that you will do the same.
Thank you!