Are you looking for a special gift for a special person? Then this is the site for you. The gift you choose here is not something for a loved one to keep but a voluntary contribution in his or her name to people who really need it.
First, choose a truly useful gift for some of the world’s poorest, giving hope for a better future to a community in need. Then, when you purchase the item, we will send you an attractive card for you to send to that loved one. You can use the cards for any special occasion: weddings, births, anniversaries, Christmas, etc.
GIFTS COST	(AUD)
20 tree seedlings	$5
A loan to set up a women’s self-help group	$8
3 months’ water supply for one person	$10
Training in vegetable farming	$15
Child vaccinations against 6 killer diseases	$20
School books	$20
Basic adult education	$25
Basic health-care services	$30
One year of primary schooling	$35
A goat	$40
A supply toilet	$50
3 months’ water supply for a family	$65
A loan to set up a small business	$85
A sewing machine	$100
Nutritional supplements for a family	$130
Oxen for ploughing	$180
A set of books on health and medical care	$200
Assistance for families headed by children	$300
A community primary school	$500
A village tractor	$1,000
A well and water pump	$1,350

---

Dear ______,
To let you know that I am thinking of you on this special day. I have purchased a gift from the World’s Most Useful Gifts catalogue in your name for some of the world’s poorest people.
This gift will train a small community in India, Kenya, or Bangladesh in new agricultural methods, and it will provide seeds and simple agricultural equipment. Just 20% more produce will mean the difference between sickness and health, and between families going hungry and families providing for themselves.
From,
______