After finishing high school and before going on to further education or the world of work, there will be a break over the summer. Using this break wisely can be very beneficial. In fact, it could even change your life. If used correctly, the break will give you some great experiences and help you think about what you want to do with your life. So let’s take a look at some summer break options and some tips on getting it right.
## Working
The world of work can feel more stressful than school, but it definitely has its rewards. Many people work during their break to earn money, often for their further education. Others work to get valuable work experience. Finding a temporary work placement in a company will gain you some great experience, and you may even be able to return to the company in the future. There are also some “fun” choices. For example, working at a summer camp is a popular way to earn a little money, gain some experience, and make friends at the same time.
## Volunteering
Being a volunteer usually means doing important work in the service of others. Volunteering is often quite challenging, but it’s an extremely rewarding experience to give something back to society. Take teaching children in a remote village, for example. Helping the students learn new things will give you a great sense of achievement. Try to volunteer in a field that you are interested in, as this may help your future career and make future employers respect you more. But be careful to check the details of any voluntary work that is away from home or overseas. Some organisations provide you with free food and lodgings, but others do not, which means that you may need to pay to be a volunteer!
## Studying
Yes, you could go back to school! Not necessarily the same school as before, but a place where you could take a specialised course in something you’re really interested in. It’s a great chance to get an extra qualification for your CV. Aside from that, it will give you a better insight into the subject area and make you more experienced than others.
## Travelling
Travelling will build your confidence and broaden your horizons. Backpacking is a very popular and cheap way for young people to travel. There are plenty of helpful websites and travel guides. Most backpackers stay in international youth hostels—safe, cheap, and friendly places to stay, which also usually offer food, ticket bookings, and tours.
It’s up to you where you travel, too. You can travel overseas or in your own country, either of which will bring great experiences. But why is travel so important? For centuries, famous writers and thinkers have written about the importance of travel. Travel leads to great stories, photos, and friends. It also gives you a fresh perspective on where you are from. Although it does cost money, it is a character-building experience that gives you time to think and develop, and you cannot put a price on great memories.
TOP TIPS
It is very important to use the summer break effectively. The break should be seen as an extended part of your education. You can learn about the world, adult life, and, most importantly, yourself. You could also obtain some valuable work experience, and it could possibly lead to great changes in your life. Good planning is key, so remember these tips:
· Be focused. An effective break should follow your interests or area of study. It will bring you more satisfaction and help contribute to your future.
· Be organised. Before your break starts, do some research and make a plan. This in itself develops important life skills. Take travel for example. You have to find out about the destination, how to get there, where to stay. how much things will cost, and so on and so forth.
· Be smart. You don’t have to choose just one option. For example, perhaps you could find paid or voluntary work that is away from home, which will also give you lots of travel experience.
· Be money-minded. Will you spend money or save it? Will you need to borrow money? Budgeting, or controlling how you spend money, is an essential life skill to master.
· Be safe. If you’re going to be away from home, make sure you go to a reputable place. Always let your parents know where you are. It’s best to travel with friends, too.
· Be happy! Although planning an effective summer break can be stressful, it is essential to ensure that you have a safe and pleasant time! Remember that it’s important to do something that interests you, as it will enable you to gain experience and have fun at the same time.
So start thinking and planning now, and make this summer break one that could change your life!
