Everyone knows the people who have helped to change the face of the world in recent years. From Bill Gates to Steve Jobs to Jack Ma, few would not recognise their names. However, those who work tirelessly behind the scenes often go unnoticed, in spite of their great achievements. If you know anyone who deserves to have their contributions recognised, we would love to hear from you! Let us know how these people have helped to make a difference in your eyes.

---

The person I respect most is the geophysicist Huang Danian, who helped China to make many technological advances.
Huang was a remarkable scientist. He had studied and worked in Britain for 18 years, but when he felt that his country needed him, he gave up his well-paid job and returned to China. Over the next seven years, Huang worked to develop many devices needed for deep-Earth exploration.
Unfortunately, such achievements didn’t come cheap. Due to the frantic pace of his research, Huang was absent from his father’s funeral, and even his own cancer went undetected as he had no time to see a doctor. To sum up, Huang sacrificed everything for his research, and I think more people should honour him.
(Zhang Keyu, Hubei)

---

I want to tell everyone about two teachers on Changyu Island, Wang Kaiquan and Lin Zhujin.
Few people know about this hometown of mine. The island is beautiful, but it’s quite isolated, and there aren’t many modern conveniences. In bad weather, even our water and power supplies are unstable. People who have never been to our island are often surprised by this and find it hard to adjust. Many who live on the island dream of leaving. These two primary school teachers, however, have stayed on for 23 long years! They are the only teachers here, and they plan to stay for as long as there are children who need to attend school.
I want to thank them, and let the world know about these teachers who work tirelessly every day for the sake of the children.
(Chen Xueyin, Fujian)

---

My mother, Liu Shurong, is my greatest inspiration. She is 47 years old and works as a cashier at a neighbourhood supermarket.
I used to think her job was pretty easy, but now that I am older, I realise that my mother deserves respect for doing an amazing job all these years. She works long hours every day for the sake of our family, and she still finds the time to help with household chores and spend time with me.
My mother takes pride in her work. She faces customers with a smile and works hard even when she is tired. Because of her, I have learnt to stay positive even when times are hard.
(Luo Tengfei, Jilin)