(Adapted from Gooseberries by Anton Pavlovich Chekhov)
Ivan, the veterinary surgeon, and Bourkin, the schoolmaster, were enjoying a refreshing walk in the countryside.
“Last time when we met,” said Bourkin, “you were about to tell me a story.”
“Yes, I meant to tell you about my brother.”
Just as Ivan was about to start his story, the heavens opened, catching the two men completely by surprise.
“We need to take shelter from this harsh weather,” said Bourkin, wiping the rain from his eyes. “Let us go to Aliokhin’s; it’s close by.”
The two companions quickly took a shortcut to where Aliokhin lived. In the doorway of the barn stood Aliokhin himself, a man of about forty, tall with long hair, more like a painter than a landowner. He grinned at his acquaintances with great enthusiasm.
“Welcome, gentlemen!”he said, delighted to see them. “You look wet and weary! Go into the house. I’m just going to quickly bathe. I’ll be with you shortly.”
The two men were met by a maid, who had brought them some slippers. She then guided them to some armchairs in a big drawing room, which was enriched with countless bookcases and authentic paintings. Sometime later, Aliokhin appeared, his hair all neatly combed. The three men exchanged greetings and then Bourkin suggested that Ivan should tell his story. Ivan leant back in his chair and commenced his tale, and it seemed as though not only Bourkin and Aliokhin were listening but also the ladies and the officers in the paintings, who were all sternly looking down upon them from their golden frames.
“My brother, Nicholai Ivanovitch, is two years younger than I. When we were boys, our father died, leaving us with a small estate. But after his death, the estate went to pay his debts. We spent our childhood in the countryside just like peasants’ children, playing in the fields, working in the mill, and so on ... But it was no life of misery. You know, once a man has lived in the country, to the day of his death, he will be drawn to the country.”
“Anyway, at age 19, my brother began employment as a court clerk. Years passed by and he thought of only one thing: how to return to the country. He used to draw plans of his dream estate that would always have the same things on them: a farmhouse, a cottage, a vegetable garden, and a gooseberry bush. He clung to this dream and began to save every penny he could. He was so poor and hungry that he often looked like a beggar.”
“30 years on, still with the same notion of buying a farmhouse with a gooseberry bush, he opted to marry an elderly widow—not out of any feeling for her but because she had money. Money, like vodka, can play strange tricks on a man. When his wife passed away, he used her funds to purchase his dream: three hundred acres of land, with a farmhouse, a cottage, and twenty gooseberry bushes.”
“Last year, I paid a visit to his country paradise. I saw that my brother was no longer a poor, tired court clerk but a landowner and a person of apparent importance. He boasted,‘The people love me. I have only to raise my finger and they will do as I wish.’ And, like a good, noble landowner, he said he often performs acts of charity. On his last birthday, he treated the village peasants to half a bucket of vodka, after which they bowed to him in gratitude and licked his boots in disgusting drunkenness. I remember when he was a court clerk, he was terrified to have an opinion of his own, but now he imagines himself as an important lord with an opinion on everything. It seems as though he had forgotten that our grandfather was a peasant and our father a common soldier.”
“I remember later that evening when my brother tried the first gooseberries ever grown on his estate, glancing at me in triumph. ‘How delicious!’ he exclaimed. So I tried one, and it was hard and sour. But, as Pushkin said,‘the illusion which exalts us is dearer to us than ten thousand truths.’ I saw a happy man, one whose dream had come true, but it also filled me with a sense of deep despair. No one ever thinks of those who suffer and of all the horror that goes on in life. It appears that a happy man only feels so because the unhappy bear their burden in silence, and without that silence, happiness would be impossible. But life will sooner or later show its claws to those who are selfish. Some misfortune will come for them—illness, poverty, loss—and then no one will see or hear them, just as they now neither see nor hear others. I went away from my brother’s house early in the morning, and ever since then it has been unbearable for me to be in town.”
Ivan then walked over to Aliokhin and shook his hand firmly with both hands.
“My dear friend! Don’t be satisfied; think of all those poor souls in need! While you are still young, strong, and wealthy, do not cease to do good! If our life has a meaning, an aim, it has nothing to do with our personal happiness, but something wiser and greater. My only regret in life is that I have got to this grand old age without even a thought for others. Oh, how I wish it weren’t so.”
And all this Ivan said with a pitiful, imploring smile, as though he were asking Aliokhin a personal favour.
Then all three were silent. Ivan’s story had satisfied neither Bourkinn or Aliokhin, who both would have rather heard of happier topics. But Aliokhin was pleased enough to have visitors that talked of things that had no direct bearing on his life. He did not think to question whether what Ivan had said was wise or true.
“Alas, it is bedtime,” said Bourkin, getting up. “Allow me to wish you both goodnight.”
The three men then made their way to their separate rooms.
Ivan Ivanovitch uttered a sigh as he undressed in silence and got into bed.
The rain lashed against the windowpanes all night long.
